UI  - 10753721
AB  - Transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-beta1), which is present in lung tissue, has been
      suggested to play a role in modulating vascular cell function in vivo. The action of
      TGF-beta1 in vivo, especially at the local site of application to connective tissue, is
      anabolic and leads to pulmonary fibrosis and angiogenesis, strongly indicating that
      TGF-beta may have practical applications in repair of tissue injury caused by burns,
      trauma, or surgery. In the present study, we have used cultured bovine pulmonary artery
      endothelial (BPAE) cells as a model system. Expression of various proteins, including
      SPARC (secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteines), type IV procollagen and fibronectin
      (FN) was examined by radiolabeling the cells with [3H]proline, immunoprecipitation with
      specific antibodies, and Northern blot analyses by using specific cDNA probes. Cultured
      cells were labeled with [3H]proline for 24 h in either the absence or in the presence of
      TGF-beta1 (0-20 ng/ml). Incorporation of radioactivity was observed in a
      concentration-dependent manner, maximal at 5 ng/ml. Northern blot hybridization
      demonstrated that TGF-beta1 (5 ng/ml) treatment of BPAE cells caused an increase in
      steady-state levels

UI  - 20212543 
AB  - Ku is a heterodimeric protein composed of approximately 70- and approximately 80-kDa
      subunits (Ku70 and Ku80) originally identified as an autoantigen recognized by the sera of
      patients with autoimmune diseases. Ku has high binding affinity for DNA ends and that is
      why originally it was known as a DNA end binding protein, but now it is known to also
      bind the DNA structure at nicks, gaps, hairpins, as well as the ends of telomeres. It has
      been reported also to bind with sequence specificity to DNA and with weak affinity to
      RNA. Ku is an abundant nuclear protein and is present in vertebrates, insects, yeast, and
      worms. Ku contains ssDNA-dependent ATPase and ATP-dependent DNA helicase
      activities. It is the regulatory subunit of the DNA-dependent protein kinase that
      phosphorylates many proteins, including SV-40 large T antigen, p53, RNA-polymerase II,
      RP-A, topoisomerases, hsp90, and many transcription factors such as c-Jun, c-Fos, oct-1,
      sp-1, c-Myc, TFIID, and many more. It seems to be a multifunctional protein that has been
      implicated to be involved directly or indirectly in many important cellular metabolic
      processes such as DNA double-strand break repair, V(D)J recombination of
      immunoglobulins and T-cell receptor genes, immunoglobulin isotype switching, DNA
      replication, transcription regulation, regulation of heat shock-induced responses,
      regulation of the precise structure of telomeric termini, and it also plays a novel role in G2
      and M phases of the cell cycle. The mechanism underlying the regulation of all the diverse
      functions of Ku is still obscure.

UI  - 20216440
AB  - MTs are small cysteine-rich metal-binding proteins found in many species and, although
      there are differences between them, it is of note that they have a great deal of sequence
      and structural homology. Mammalian MTs are 61 or 62 amino acid polypeptides containing
      20 conserved cysteine residues that underpin the binding of metals. The existence of MT
      across species is indicative of its biological demand, while the conservation of cysteines
      indicates that these are undoubtedly central to the function of this protein. Four MT
      isoforms have been found so far, MT-1, MT-2, MT-3, and MT-4, but these also have
      subtypes with 17 MT genes identified in man, of which 10 are known to be functional.
      Different cells express different MT isoforms with varying levels of expression perhaps as
      a result of the different function of each isoform. Even different metals induce and bind to
      MTs to different extents. Over 40 years of research into MT have yielded much
      information on this protein, but have failed to assign to it a definitive biological role. The
      fact that multiple MT isoforms exist, and the great variety of substances and agents that
      act as inducers, further complicates the search for the biological role of MTs. This article
      reviews the current knowledge on the biochemistry, induction, regulation, and degradation
      of this protein in mammals, with a particular emphasis on human MTs. It also considers the
      possible biological roles of this protein, which include participation in cell proliferation and
      apoptosis, homeostasis of essential metals, cellular free radical scavenging, and metal
      detoxification.

UI  - 20216441
AB  - Mycobacterium leprae multiplies within host macrophages. The mechanism of
      internalisation of the bacteria by the phagocytic cells is unknown. In this study, M. leprae
      was purified from the foot pads of experimentally infected nu/nu mice. Peritoneal
      macrophages were harvested from BALB/c mice or C57 beige (bg/bg) mice. The effect of
      protein kinase inhibitors (erbstatin, genistein or staurosporine for BALB/c and bg/bg mice,
      plus herbimycin for bg/bg mice) on phagocytosis of the mycobacteria by the macrophage
      monolayers was tested. The untreated (control) macrophages phagocytosed M. leprae.
      Phagocytosis by BALB/c macrophages was inhibited by erbstatin and staurosporine but
      not by genistein; all the protein kinase inhibitors prevented uptake of M. leprae by bg/bg
      cells. The results demonstrate that protein kinase regulates phagocytosis of M. leprae by
      macrophages. The mechanism might prove to be a rational drug target for mycobacteria
      that multiply intracellularly.

UI  - 20216403
AB  - Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), also known as scatter factor (SF), is a motogen, mitogen
      and morphogen produced by mesenchymal cells that mainly acts on epithelial cells and is
      involved in osteoclast stimulation. This study examined the possible enhanced production
      of HGF/SF by human gingival fibroblasts upon stimulation with killed cells of
      Porphyromonas gingivalis strain 381 and its representative bioactive cellular components,
      fimbriae and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). P. gingivalis whole cells enhanced the production
      of HGF/SF detected by ELISA in culture supernates of the fibroblasts. Fimbriae prepared
      from P. gingivalis exhibited powerful HGF/SF-inducing activity in a
      concentration-dependent manner, with peak activity observed at 100-200 microg/ml. The
      fimbriae-induced HGF/SF mRNA expression by the cells was also detected by reverse
      transcription-PCR. P. gingivalis LPS exhibited weak HGF/SF-inducing activity. The study
      also examined the HGF/SF-inducing activity of seven synthetic peptides corresponding to
      the segments of P. gingivalis fimbrial subunit protein. The peptides of residues 282-301
      and 302-321, which exhibited antagonistic effects against P. gingivalis fimbriae-binding to
      human gingival fibroblasts in a previous study, showed weak activity, whereas other
      non-antagonistic peptides showed no significant activity. These findings indicated that P.
      gingivalis fimbriae enhanced production of HGF/SF by human gingival fibroblasts,
      whereas synthetic peptide segments of fimbrial subunit protein were not sufficient to exert
      the activity.

UI  - 20216401
AB  - The low affinity receptor for IgG, FcgammaRIIB, functions to dampen the antibody
      response and reduce the risk of autoimmunity. This function is reportedly mediated in part
      by inhibition of B cell antigen receptor (BCR)-mediated p21ras activation, though the basis
      of this inhibition is unknown. We show here that FcgammaRIIB-BCR coaggregation leads
      to increased tyrosine phosphorylation of the RasGAP-binding protein p62dok, with a
      concomitant increase in its binding to RasGAP. These effects require the recruitment and
      tyrosine phosphorylation of the phosphatidylinositol 5-phosphatase SHIP, which further
      recruits p62dok via the latter's phosphotyrosine-binding domain. Using chimeric
      FcgammaRIIB containing the RasGAP-binding domain of p62dok, we demonstrate that
      p62dok contains all structural information required to mediate the inhibitory effect of
      FcgammaRIIB on Erk activation.

UI  - 20216397
AB  - GATA-3 is a T cell-specific transcription factor and is essential for the development of the
      T cell lineage. Recently, it was shown that the expression of GATA-3 is further induced in
      CD4+ helper T cells upon differentiation into type 2 but not type 1 effector cells. Here, we
      report the molecular cloning of a GATA-3 interacting protein, repressor of GATA (ROG).
      ROG is a lymphoid-specific gene and is rapidly induced in Th cells upon stimulation with
      anti-CD3. In in vitro assays, ROG represses the GATA-3-induced transactivation.
      Furthermore, overexpression of ROG in Th clones inhibits the production of Th cytokines.
      Taken together, our results suggest that ROG might play a critical role in regulating the
      differentiation and activation of Th cells.

UI  - 20216395 
AB  - In the pathogenesis of gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT)-type
      lymphoma, CagA-positive Helicobacter pylori strains have been suspected of making a
      significant contribution. To investigate this hypothesis in more detail, the mucosal
      humoral immune response of 15 patients with gastric MALT-type lymphoma was examined
      in the tumor and in the tumor-free gastritis of the same patient. Mononuclear cells from
      different sites (antrum, corpus, lymphoma) were cultured. Culture supernatant and serum
      of the same patient were used for immunodetection of CagA. All patients displayed an
      immune response to CagA in the tissue-culture supernatants. Although the humoral
      immune response in the tumor was restricted to a very few H. pylori antigens, antibodies
      directed against CagA protein were found in most patients. The immune response to CagA
      in nearly all lymphoma patients--not only in the serum, but also in the mucosa, including
      the tumor site--support the hypothesis that CagA is involved in the pathogenesis of
      gastric MALT-type lymphoma.

UI  - 20216376
AB  - Ninety-six pure-bred Large White pigs weighing 80 to 100 kg were either not transported or
      transported for eight, 16 or 24 hours, and then either slaughtered immediately on arrival at
      the abattoir or kept in lairage for six hours before being slaughtered. The pigs travelling for
      eight, 16 or 24 hours lost 2.2, 2.0 and 4.3 per cent of liveweight, respectively, and the pigs
      travelling for 24 hours lost 2.6 per cent of hot carcase weight Both liveweight and hot
      carcase weight recovered during the lairage period although there was a net liveweight
      loss in comparison with the control animals. Only transport for 24 hours led to losses in
      carcase weight The concentration of non-esterified fatty acids increased with the time
      spent travelling. The concentrations of cortisol, creatine phosphokinase and lactate were
      all low in comparison with the levels found in commercially slaughtered animals. Plasma
      albumin and protein concentrations indicated that the animals were becoming dehydrated
      during the longer journeys. The animals lay down for most of the journey and appeared to
      be asleep. During the period in lairage, the animals transported for eight hours had two
      distinct periods of feeding and drinking but spent most of the time lying down, but those
      transported for 16 and 24 hours showed far more eating and drinking activity. All the
      groups appeared tired, but the urge to eat of the groups transported for 16 hours, and
      especially 24 hours appeared to be more important. There were behavioural and the
      physiological differences between the transported groups and the controls. Six hours in
      lairage with access to food and water allowed most of the physiological parameters to
      return to pretransport levels.


UI  - 20216363
AB  - BACKGROUND: Chronic rejection is a major cause of graft dysfunction after kidney
      transplantation. This fibroproliferative disease may be promoted by overproduction of
      transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta). Previous studies have suggested that CsA
      might increase production of this growth factor. The current study was designed to
      measure the expression of TGF-beta(b) in renal transplant biopsy specimens from patients
      undergoing immunosuppressive therapy with either CsA or tacrolimus (FK506). METHOD:
      Paraffin-embedded renal biopsy specimens were sectioned, dewaxed, and incubated with
      primary antibody against TGF-beta(b)1 latency-associated protein and active
      TGF-beta(b1). After washing, the sections were treated with secondary antibody
      conjugated with FITC. In each case, the sections were assessed by semi-quantitative
      scanning laser confocal microscopic method. RESULTS: There was no significant
      difference in latent TGF-beta(b) expression between biopsy specimens from patients
      receiving CsA and patients receiving FK506. However, biopsy specimens from patients
      receiving CsA expressed significantly more active TGF-beta(b1) than biopsy specimens
      from patients receiving FK506 (P<0.0001, Mann-Whitney test). DISCUSSION: The
      increased level of active TGF-beta1 expression in renal biopsy specimens of patients
      receiving CsA may indicate a mechanism of chronic rejection. However, these biopsies
      were performed to assess deranged renal function; therefore, the specimens may reflect
      events rather than differences in medication.

UI  - 20216343 
AB  - BACKGROUND: Increased expression of chemokine mRNA is observed in allogeneic but
      not syngeneic skin grafts 3-4 days after transplantation. The recipient cells mediating this
      early inflammatory response in allografts remain unidentified. METHODS: Isogeneic and
      allogeneic skin grafts were transplanted to euthymic and athymic nude mice. mRNA
      expression and protein production of macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha
      (MIP-1alpha), MIP-1beta, and the murine homolog of Gro(alpha), i.e. KC, from graft
      homogenates retrieved 3-4 days posttransplantation was tested by Northern blot
      hybridization and ELISA. To deplete NK cells, recipients were treated with antiasialo GM1
      (ASGM1) antisera or with anti-NK1.1 mAb before transplantation. RESULTS: Expression of
      KC, MIP-1alpha, and MIP-1beta mRNA was equivalent in C57BL/6 allogeneic skin grafts
      and BALB/c isografts at day 2 posttransplant. At day 3 posttransplant, chemokine mRNA
      levels decreased in isografts but were maintained at high levels in the allografts. Increased
      early chemokine mRNA was also observed in C57BL/6, but not BALB/c++ grafts on
      BALB/c athymi(nu/nu) recipients. Treatment of allograft recipients with ASGM1 or with
      anti-NK1.1 antibody eliminated NK cells from the spleen and allograft infiltrating cell
      populations and decreased early chemokine mRNA levels in allografts 60-70%. Analyses
      of allograft homogenates indicated increased levels of KC, MIP-1alpha, and MIP-1beta
      protein at day 4 posttransplant that were decreased in recipients depleted of NK cells.
      Early chemokine mRNA levels were equivalent in isogeneic and semiallogeneic F1 grafts.
      CONCLUSIONS: Early chemokine mRNA expression and protein production in allogeneic
      skin grafts is amplified by recipient natural killer (NK) cells. These results indicate a novel
      function for infiltrating NK cells in mediating early increased intra-allograft chemokine
      production and inflammation during the initiation of acute rejection.

UI  - 20216335
AB  - The effect of pre- and post-challenge treatments with trifluoperazine and
      palmitoylcarnitine, two protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors characterised by their interaction
      with the phospholipid enzyme cofactor, on the inflammation caused by delayed
      hypersensitivity (DTH) to dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB) and sheep red blood cells (SRBC)
      in mice is reported. The activity of dexamethasone and two immunosupressors,
      azathioprine and methotrexate, is also evaluated. The effectiveness of pre-treatment with
      each of the test drugs diminished when the DNFB challenge dose increased, whereas
      trifluoperazine and azathioprine were more active when administered after the challenge at
      the high DNFB dose. Trifluoperazine, which is also a calmodulin-antagonist, was the more
      effective of the PKC inhibitors tested on DNFB-DTH (39% and 59% inhibition swelling 24
      and 96 h after challenge, respectively). SRBC-DTH was sensitive only to the action of the
      drugs given after challenge. In this test, PKC inhibitors showed a moderate effect, in the
      same range as methotrexate, whereas dexamethasone suppressed the reaction. The ability
      of trifluoperazine in inhibiting cutaneous DTH reaction, depending on the treatment
      schedule and the hapten challenge dose, has been determined.

UI  - 20216251 
AB  - Cordyceps sinensis is a herb medicine in China for the treatment of general debility after
      sickness and for persons of advanced age. In the present study, cordyceps sinensis was
      extract by phosphate buffer saline (PBS) and dialyzed overnight against PBS using a
      membrane cut off at 3,500 dalton molecular weight. The resulting macromolecule fraction
      (defined as CS) was assayed in anesthetized rats for hypotensive effects and in isolated
      aorta for vasorelaxant effects. Intravenous injection of CS (8,16, 24 and 32 mg/kg,
      respectively) suppressed significantly the mean arterial pressure (MAP) in a
      dose-dependent manner. 32 mg/kg of CS induces the maximal hypotensive response with a
      58 +/- 4 mm Hg (from 107 +/- 6 to 49 +/- 3 mm Hg) change in MAP and a over 45 min action
      duration. In aortic rings precontracted with phenylephrine treatment with CS between 0.5
      and 500 microg/ml induced dose dependent relaxation. Maximal vasorelaxant response
      evoked by 150 microg/ml CS was 68.9 +/- 7.3%. Furthermore, CS-induced vasorelaxation is
      mediated by the endothelium possibly by stimulating the release of the nitric oxide and
      endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor. In conclusion, the present study revealed that
      presence of a constituent in CS which reduces MAP by relaxing the vascular beds directly.
      However, the effect may be caused by a single active ingredient or by the combined action
      of many active agents found in the extract.

UI  - 20216249 
AB  - Our analyses of cathepsin H activity levels and protein forms in human colorectal cancers
      compared to matched control mucosa support the concept that altered proteinase
      expression patterns may reflect both cancer stage and site. Cathepsin H-specific activity
      was significantly increased in colorectal cancers compared to control mucosa (P = 0.003; n
      = 77). Highest specific activities and cancer/normal ratios (C/N) for activity were measured
      in Dukes' B and C stage carcinomas, cancers involved in local spread and invasion to
      lymph nodes. In contrast, cathepsin B and L activities analysed in the same paired extracts
      had been shown to be most frequently elevated in earlier stage carcinomas (Dukes' A and
      B), confirming that cathepsin H demonstrates a distinct pattern of expression during
      colorectal cancer progression. Although cathepsin H activities were most commonly
      elevated in Dukes' C cancers at all colon sites, both specific activity and C/N ratios were
      significantly higher for cancers of the left colon compared to other colon locations. A
      subset of 43 paired extracts analysed on Western blots also revealed consistent changes
      in cathepsin H protein forms in cancers. Normal mucosa typically showed a strong protein
      doublet at 31 and 29 kDa while cancers demonstrated decreased expression or total loss of
      the 31 kDa protein (90% of cases), equal or increased expression of the 29-kDa protein
      (67% of cases) and the new appearance or up-regulation of a cathepsin H band at 22 kDa
      (78% of cases). C/N ratios for cathepsin H enzyme activity correlated significantly with
      C/N ratios for the 29 kDa mature single-chain protein form (P < 0.001), with increased
      activity most commonly associated with elevated expression of 29-kDa cathepsin H but
      also with up-regulation of the 22-kDa band, suggesting a shift to more fully processed,
      mature active cathepsin H protein forms in cancers. Changes in cathepsin H expression
      were also detected by immunohistochemistry as elevated cathepsin H staining in tumour
      epithelial cells.

UI  - 20216184 
AB  - Mitomycin C (MMC) is a prototype bioreductive drug employed to treat a variety of
      cancers including head and neck cancer. Among the various enzymes, dicoumarol
      inhibitable cytosolic NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase1 (NQO1) was shown to catalyse
      bioreductive activation of MMC leading to cross-linking of the DNA and cytotoxicity.
      However, the role of NQO1 in metabolic activation of MMC has been disputed. In this
      report, we present cellular and animal models to demonstrate that NQO1 may play only a
      minor role in metabolic activation of MMC. We further demonstrate that bioreductive
      activation of MMC is catalysed by a unique cytosolic activity which is related but distinct
      from NQO1. Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells were developed that permanently express
      higher levels of cDNA-derived NQO1. These cells showed significantly increased
      protection against menadione toxicity. However, they failed to demonstrate higher
      cytotoxicity due to exposure to MMC under oxygen (normal air) or hypoxia, as compared
      to the wild-type control CHO cells. Disruption of the NQO1 gene by homologous
      recombination generated NQO1-/- mice that do not express the NQO1 gene resulting in the
      loss of NQO1 protein and activity. The cytosolic fractions from liver and colon tissues of
      NQO1-/- mice showed similar amounts of DNA cross-linking upon exposure to MMC, as
      observed in NQO1+/+ mice. The unique cytosolic activity that activated MMC in cytosolic
      fractions of liver and colon tissues of NQO1-/- mice was designated as cytosolic MMC
      reductase. This activity, like NQO1, was inhibited by dicoumarol and immunologically
      related to NQO1.

UI  - 20216182 
AB  - Methylation of the p16 gene was studied in 16 oesophageal tumours. Five (31%) of the
      tumours were found to be methylated in exon 1 and eight (50%) were methylated in exon 2.
      The loss of p16 protein correlated with methylation of exon 1 (P = 0.005). However,
      methylation of exon 2, but not exon 1, was found to be associated with late stage tumours
      (P = 0.01). We conclude that the methylation of exon 2 of p16 may have effects on the
      progression of oesophageal tumours that are independent of the expression of the p16
      protein.

UI  - 20216163
AB  - A procedure is presented for determination of the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT)
      activity in liver cytosolic preparations using 3,4-dihydroxyphenethylamine as substrate
      and by quantifying the product 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenethylamine (3-MHP). For
      quantification of 3-MHP in liver cytosolic preparations a gas chromatographic-mass
      spectrometric procedure after liquid-liquid extraction and acetylation was established and
      validated. The intra- and inter-day accuracy and precision were better than 15% and 20%,
      respectively. Extraction efficiency and selectivity were also sufficient. For in statu
      nascendi derivatization of unstable catecholic metabolites in liver microsome preparations,
      cytosolic preparations with COMT activities of at least 1 nmol product/min/mg protein
      were used after addition of S-adenosylmethionine. Such catecholic metabolites, which are
      claimed to be responsible for toxic effects in vivo, e.g., neurotoxicity or carcinogenesis,
      must not be overlooked in in vitro metabolism studies. Using this trick, gas
      chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) was suitable for the determination of
      catecholic metabolites in human and rat liver preparations after the same sample
      preparation as for 3-MHP quantification. The applicability was exemplified for the
      antidepressant paroxetine.

UI  - 20216152 
AB  - Heterologous expression of NodZ and NolL proteins in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv.
      viciae led to the production of acetyl fucosylated lipo-chitin oligosaccharides (LCOs),
      indicating that the NolL protein obtained from Mesorhizobium loti functions as an acetyl
      transferase. We show that the NolL-dependent acetylation is specific for the fucosyl
      penta-N-acetylglucosamine species. In addition, the NolL protein caused elevated
      production of LCOs. Efficient nodulation of Lotus japonicus by the NodZ/NolL-producing
      strain was demonstrated. Nodulation efficiency was further improved by the addition of
      the ethylene inhibitor L-alpha-(2-aminoethoxyvinyl) glycine (AVG).

UI  - 20216088
AB  - In order to study molecular interactions that occur between rice and rice blast fungus upon
      infection, we isolated fungal elicitor-responsive genes from rice (Oryza sativa cv. Milyang
      117) suspension-cultured cells treated with fungal elicitor prepared from the rice blast
      fungus (Magnaporthe grisea) employing a method that combined mRNA differential
      display and cDNA library screening. Data base searches with the isolated cDNA clones
      revealed that the OsERG1 and OsERG2 cDNAs share significant similarities with the
      mammalian Ca2+-dependent lipid binding (C2) domains. The OsCPX1 cDNA is highly
      homologous to peroxidases. The OsHin1 cDNA exhibits homology to the tobacco hin1
      gene, whose expression is induced by avirulent pathogens. The OsLPL1 and OsMEK1
      cDNAs share homologies with lysophospholipases and serine/threonine
      mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinases, respectively. The OsWRKY1 and
      OsEREBP1 cDNAs are homologous to transcription factors, such as the WRKY protein
      family and the AP2/EREBP family, respectively. Transcripts of the OsERG1, OsHin1, and
      OsMEK1 genes were specifically elevated only in response to the avirulent race KJ301 of
      the rice blast fungus. Our study yielded a number of elicitor-responsive genes that will not
      only provide molecular probes, but also contribute to our understanding of host defense
      mechanisms against the rice blast fungus.


UI  - 20216087 
AB  - Genistein, tyrphostin and piceatannol, which are specific inhibitors of protein tyrosine
      kinase, were screened for their effects on the motility of intact and demembranated hamster
      spermatozoa. Of the three inhibitors only piceatannol inhibited the motility of intact
      spermatozoa. None of the inhibitors had any inhibitory effect on the reactivation of
      motility of demembranated hamster spermatozoa. Taken together these results indicated
      that a protein tyrosine kinase associated with the membrane of hamster spermatozoa was
      probably involved in sustenance of hamster sperm motility. Therefore in the present study
      a membrane-associated protein tyrosine kinase was purified from a detergent-soluble
      extract of plasma membranes of mature hamster spermatozoa. The purification involved
      cation exchange chromatography on fast protein liquid chromatography (FPLC) followed
      by affinity chromatography either on an antiphosphotyrosine antibody agarose or poly
      glu-tyr agarose column. The pure protein tyrosine kinase had an apparent molecular mass
      of 45 kDa. The enzyme was not inhibited by genistein or herbimycin but was inhibited by
      piceatannol. This is the first report on the purification of a sperm plasma
      membrane-associated protein tyrosine kinase, an enzyme which has also been implicated in
      hamster sperm motility.

UI  - 20217994 
AB  - Phosphorylation of G-protein-coupled receptors by second-messenger-stimulated kinases
      is central to the process of receptor desensitization [1] [2] [3]. Phosphorylation of the
      beta(2)-adrenergic receptor (beta(2)-AR) by protein kinase A (PKA), in addition to
      uncoupling adenylate cyclase activation, is obligatory for receptor-mediated activation of
      mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase) cascades [4] [5]. Although mechanisms for
      linking G-protein-coupled receptor kinases to the activated receptor are well established,
      analogous mechanisms for targeting second messenger kinases to the beta(2)-AR at the
      plasma membrane have not been elucidated. Here we show that the A-kinase-anchoring
      protein, AKAP79/150, co-precipitates with the beta(2)-AR in cell and tissue extracts,
      nucleating a signaling complex that includes PKA, protein kinase C (PKC) and protein
      phosphatase PP2B. The anchoring protein directly and constitutively interacts with the
      beta(2)-AR and promotes receptor phosphorylation following agonist stimulation.
      Functional studies show that PKA anchoring is required to enhance beta(2)-AR
      phosphorylation and to facilitate downstream activation of the MAP kinase pathway. This
      defines a role for AKAP79/150 in the recruitment of second-messenger-regulated signaling
      enzymes to a G-protein-coupled receptor.

      
UI  - 10753752
AB  - The properties of the microtubule network are regulated at various levels including
      tissue-dependent isotype switching, post-translational modification of alpha- and
      beta-tubulin, and by a variety of microtubule-associated molecules (for reviews, see [1] [2]
      [3]). Microtubule nucleation is attributed to gamma-tubulin, which is present in protein
      complexes at the centrosome and in the cytoplasm [4] [5]. A screen for flagellar mutants in
      the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii has led to the identification of a fourth member
      of the tubulin gene superfamily, delta-tubulin. In this unicellular organism, the lack of a
      functional delta-tubulin gene copy causes aberrant numbers of flagella, depending on the
      age of the corresponding basal bodies; mutants also show abnormal ultrastructure of the
      basal bodies and a misplacement of the cleavage furrow at mitosis [6]. Here, we report the
      isolation of the mouse delta-tubulin homologue and show that the gene is highly
      expressed in testis. In the elongating spermatid, delta-tubulin associated with the
      manchette, a specialised microtubule system present during reshaping of the sperm head.
      The protein specifically localised at the perinuclear ring of the manchette, at the centriolar
      vaults and along the principal piece of the sperm flagellum. In somatic cell lines, unlike
      most other tubulins, mammalian delta-tubulin was both cytoplasmic and nuclear and did
      not colocalise with microtubules. The protein was enriched at the spindle poles during
      mitosis and we found that gamma-tubulin coimmunoprecipitated with delta-tubulin.
      Together, the data indicate a specialised role for mammalian delta-tubulin that is distinct
      from other known tubulins.

      
UI  - 10753753
AB  - Centrosomes orchestrate microtubule nucleation and spindle assembly during cell division
      [1] [2] and have long been recognized as major anchoring sites for cAMP-dependent
      protein kinase (PKA) [3] [4]. Subcellular compartmentalization of PKA is achieved through
      the association of the PKA holoenzyme with A-kinase anchoring proteins (AKAPs) [5] [6].
      AKAPs have been shown to contain a conserved helical motif, responsible for binding to
      the type II regulatory subunit (RII) of PKA, and a specific targeting motif unique to each
      anchoring protein that directs the kinase to specific intracellular locations. Here, we show
      that pericentrin, an integral component of the pericentriolar matrix of the centrosome that
      has been shown to regulate centrosome assembly and organization, directly interacts with
      PKA through a newly identified binding domain. We demonstrate that both RII and the
      catalytic subunit of PKA coimmunoprecipitate with pericentrin isolated from HEK-293 cell
      extracts and that PKA catalytic activity is enriched in pericentrin immunoprecipitates. The
      interaction of pericentrin with RII is mediated through a binding domain of 100 amino acids
      which does not exhibit the structural characteristics of similar regions on conventional
      AKAPs. Collectively, these results provide strong evidence that pericentrin is an AKAP in
      vivo.

      
UI  - 10753751 
AB  - Myosin-II is required for cytokinesis in Schizosaccharomyces pombe [1] [2] [3], but unlike
      other unicellular organisms, S. pombe has two structurally distinct myosin-IIs, Myo2p and
      Myp2p, which are required under different conditions [4]. Disruption of myo2(+) is lethal,
      whereas disruption of myp2(+) leads to defects in cytokinesis when nutrients are limiting
      and to cold-sensitivity in 1 M KCl. In dividing cells, both myosin-IIs localize to a ring in
      the center of the cell, which is thought to contract, separating the cytoplasms of the
      daughter cells. Using deconvolution microscopy, we obtained three-dimensional
      reconstructions of fission yeast cells expressing green fluorescent protein-labeled
      (GFP)-myosin-II, providing for the first time detailed images of GFP-myosin-II rings. By
      time-lapse microscopy, we observed ring assembly and contraction in three dimensions
      using GFP-tubulin as a cell cycle marker. We determined that the Myo2p ring forms in
      metaphase/anaphase A whereas the Myp2p ring forms much later, at the end of anaphase
      B. Myo2p initiates ring formation while Myp2p acts later to increase the efficiency of
      cytokinesis.

      
UI  - 10753748 
AB  - The Sendai virus RNA polymerase is a complex of two virus-encoded proteins, the
      phosphoprotein (P) and the large (L) protein. When aligned with amino acid sequences of
      L proteins from other negative-sense RNA viruses, the Sendai L protein contains six
      regions of good conservation, designated domains I-VI, which have been postulated to be
      important for the various enzymatic activities of the polymerase. To directly address the
      roles of domains IV and VI, 14 site-directed mutations were constructed either by changing
      clustered charged amino acids to ala or by substituting selected Sendai L amino acids with
      the corresponding sequence from measles virus L. Each mutant L protein was tested for its
      ability to transcribe and replicate the Sendai genome. The series of mutations created a
      spectrum of phenotypes, from those with significant, near wild-type, activity to those
      being completely defective for all RNA synthesis. The inactive L proteins, however, were
      still able to bind P protein and form a polymerase capable of binding the nucleocapsid
      template. The remainder of the mutations reduced, but did not abolish, enzymatic activity
      and included one mutant with a specific defect in the synthesis of the leader RNA
      compared with mRNA, and three mutants that replicated genome RNA much more
      efficiently in vivo than in vitro. Together, these data suggest that even within a domain,
      the function of the Sendai L protein is likely to be very complex. In addition, SS3 and SS10
      L in domain IV and SS13 L in domain VI were shown to be temperature-sensitive. Both SS3
      and SS10 gave significant, although not wild-type, activity at 32 degrees C; however, each
      was completely inactivated for all RNA synthesis at 37 and 39.6 degrees C. SS13 was
      completely inactive only when synthesized at the higher temperature. Each polymerase
      synthesized at 32 degrees C could only be partially heat inactivated in vitro at 39.6 degrees
      C, suggesting that inactivation involves both thermal lability of the protein and
      temperature sensitivity for its synthesis. Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

      



UI  - 20155478 
AB  - The Mdm-1 gene was mapped to the distal end of Chromosome (Chr) 10. An extensive
      series of restriction fragment variants was identified among conventional and exotic inbred
      strains of mice. Mapping was carried out with recombinant inbred strains and an
      intersubspecific testcross. No recombinants were observed between Mdm-1 and the
      gamma interferon locus (Ifg). These two loci appear to be in linkage disequilibrium among
      inbred strains. Data from the testcross place Mdm-1 approximately 11 centimorgans distal
      to the steel (Sl) locus. Because of its extensive polymorphism, Mdm-1 is a useful genetic
      marker for distal Chr 10.


UI  - 20174548
AB  - Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with 123I-iodobenzamide
      (123I-IBZM) was used to study 22 chronic schizophrenic patients. The patients, who were
      receiving maintenance therapy with typical neuroleptics, had not shown any significant
      improvement since their admission to the hospital. Basal ganglia/frontal cortex ratios of the
      uptake of 123I-IBZM did not show significant differences on the basis of neuroleptic
      dosage in chlorpromazine equivalents. There were, however, significant differences in
      123I-IBZM uptake in the basal ganglia among patients characterized by negative, mixed,
      and positive symptoms of schizophrenia. Although only a small number of patients had
      shown a positive response to treatment by the time of discharge, D2 receptor blockade
      was significantly higher in responders than in nonresponders. In addition, there was an
      inverse correlation between reduced activation as measured by the Brief Psychiatric Rating
      Scale and the basal ganglia/frontal cortex ratio. These findings suggest a complex
      pathogenetic link between the blockade of dopamine D2 receptors and psychopathology
      in chronic schizophrenic patients. SPECT studies with 123I-IBZM appear to have
      prognostic value in identifying chronic schizophrenic patients who respond poorly to
      neuroleptic treatment.


UI  - 20174941 
AB  - Long-term desensitization of AMPA receptors (LTDA) is a core mechanism of long-term
      depression, a model of motor learning in the cerebellum. In this study we investigated the
      expression of neurotrophic factor genes after induction of LTDA in cultured cerebellar
      slices. LTDA was induced by application of quisqualate and monitored as a population
      response with a wedge recording technique. The levels of mRNA were quantified by
      reverse transcription followed by polymerase chain reaction. Quisqualate, at a dose and
      duration that reliably induced LTDA, elicited a significant and specific increase in BDNF
      mRNA with a peak at four hours after the application. By cell fractionation, the major
      source of BDNF mRNA increase was found to be in granule cells. In addition, a small but
      significant increase of transcripts with specific exon usage was observed in a Purkinje cell
      fraction. These results indicate that BDNF may be coinduced with LTDA and suggest that
      the slow and sustained increase of BDNF mRNA might play a role in later phases of
      synaptic plasticity in the cerebellum.


UI  - 99396931 
AB  - Recent studies indicate that stimulation of NMDA receptors in cultured hippocampal cells
      activates MAP kinase. Although the pathway whereby MAP kinase is activated has been
      been characterized, little is known about the mechanisms that shut off MAP kinase. In the
      course of analyzing several immediate-early genes identified previously by differential
      screen as inducible by seizure activity, we found that one of them, BAD2, encodes dual
      purpose, threonine/tyrosine phosphates with specific activity directed against MAP
      kinase (MKP-1). In situ hybridization of BAD2 demonstrates that stimuli that produce
      seizure, kindling, and long-term potentiation cause a rapid increase in BAD2 mRNA (within
      0.5-1 hr after stimulation) that has, in each case, a distinctive pattern of expression in the
      brain. In these regions, the induction of a MAP kinase-specific phosphatase may provide a
      negative feedback control associated with long-term synaptic changes.

UI  - 99396926 
AB  - Programs of gene activation may underlie long-term adaptive cellular responses to
      extracellular ligands. We have used a differential cDNA cloning strategy to identify genes
      that are strongly induced by excitatory stimuli in the adult rat hippocampus. Here, we
      report the rat cDNA sequence of a zinc-finger transcription factor, Egr3/Pilot, and
      characterize its regulated mRNA expression in brain. Egr3 mRNA is rapidly and transiently
      induced in neurons of the hippocampus and cortex by electroconvulsive seizure. mRNA
      levels peak 2 hr after the seizure and remain elevated for as long as 8 hr. Egr3 mRNA is also
      rapidly induced in granule cells of the dentate gyrus by synaptic NMDA receptor
      activation elicited by patterned stimulation of the perforant pathway and by drugs that
      alter dopamine neurotransmission in the striatum. Basal levels of Egr3 mRNA in the cortex
      appear to be driven by natural synaptic activity because monocular deprivation rapidly
      decreases Egr3 mRNA in the deafferented visual cortex. Aspects of the protein structure,
      sequence-specific DNA binding, transcriptional activity, and regulation of Egr3 are highly
      similar to another zinc-finger transcription factor, Egr1/zif268. Moreover, we demonstrate
      colocalization of Egr3 and zif268 mRNAs in neurons of normal and stimulated cortex. Our
      studies suggest that interactions between these coregulated transcription factors may be
      important in defining long-term, neuroplastic responses.

UI  - 99396923
AB  - A mathematical model for the cell cycle is proposed that incorporates the known
      biochemical reactions involving both cyclin A and cyclin B, the interactions of these
      cyclins with cdc2 and cdk2, and the controlling effects of cdc25 and weel. The model also
      postulates the existence of an as yet unknown phosphatase involved in the formation of
      maturation promoting factor. The model produces solutions that agree qualitatively with a
      wide variety of experimentally observed cell-cycle behaviour. Conditions under which the
      model could explain the initial rapid divisions of embryonic cells and the transition to the
      slower somatic cell cycle are also discussed.

UI  - 99392699 
AB  - The retinoblastoma gene product (pRB) is a nuclear phosphoprotein with
      growth-suppressing effects. During early G1 phase, pRB is underphosphorylated and
      bound in the nucleus. The association between the duration of the cell cycle/G1 phase and
      the fraction of cells in G1 with bound pRB was studied in the human pre-B cell line Reh.
      The cell-cycle duration was varied by growing cells at different concentrations (25, 10, 2,
      0.5 and 0%) of fetal calf serum (FCS); pRB binding was studied by flow cytometry. The
      culture doubling time increased from 21 h in 25% FCS to 54 h in 0.5% FCS. Cell death
      occurred in the absence of FCS, and the culture doubling time therefore could not be
      defined. The fraction of cells in G1 did not change significantly with decreasing FCS
      concentration (0.47 in 25% FCS, 0.52 in 0% FCS). In contrast, the fraction of G1 cells with
      bound pRB increased from 0.12 in 25% FCS to 0.65 in 0% FCS. Continuous labelling with
      bromodeoxyuridine demonstrated that the growth fraction was close to unity at all FCS
      concentrations down to 0.5%, hence, the duration of the cell cycle was equal to the culture
      doubling time under these conditions. The duration of early G1 phase (where pRB is
      underphosphorylated and bound) increased 10-fold, while the duration of late G1 phase
      increased twofold, for Reh cells grown in 0.5% FCS compared with cells grown in 25% FCS.
      The increase in the duration of late G1, and the increased S and G2+M phase transit times,
      indicate that other factors, in addition to pRB kinase activity, regulate the duration of G1
      and the cell cycle of serum-deprived Reh cells.

UI  - 99392698 
Ab  - The binding characteristics of pirenzepine and oxomemazine to muscarinic receptor were
      studied to evaluate the selectivity of oxomemazine for the muscarinic receptor subtypes in
      rat cerebral microsomes. Equilibrium dissociation constant (KD) of (-)-[3H]quinuclidinyl
      benzilate([3H]QNB) determined from saturation isotherms was 64 pM. Analysis of the
      pirenzepine inhibition curve of [3H]QNB binding to cerebral microsome indicated the
      presence of two receptor subtypes with high (Ki = 16 nM, M1 receptor) and low (Ki = 400
      nM, M3 receptor) affinity for pirenzepine. Oxomemazine also identified two receptor
      subtypes with about 20-fold difference in the affinity for high (Ki = 84 nM, OH receptor)
      and low (Ki = 1.65 microM, OL receptor) affinity sites. The percentage populations of M1
      and M3 receptors to the total receptors were 61:39, and those of OH and OL receptors
      39:61, respectively. Both pirenzepine and oxomemazine increased the KD value for
      [3H]QNB without affecting the binding site concentrations and Hill coefficient for the
      [3H]QNB binding. Oxomemazine had a 10-fold higher affinity at M1 receptors than at M3
      receptors, and pirenzepine a 8-fold higher affinity at OH receptors than at OL receptors.
      Analysis of the shallow competition binding curves of oxomemazine for M1 receptors and
      pirenzepine for OL receptors yielded that 69% of M1 receptors were of OH receptors and
      the remaining 31% of OL receptors, and that 29% of OL receptors were of M1 receptors
      and 71% of M3 receptors. However, M3 for oxomemazine and OH for pirenzepine were
      composed of a uniform population. These results suggest that oxomemazine could be
      classified as a selective drug for M1 receptors and also demonstrate that rat cerebral
      microsomes contain three different subtypes of M1, M3 and the other site which is
      different from M1, M2 and M3 receptors.

UI  - 99252714 
AB  - The present study was undertaken to demonstrate whether or not angiotensin II activates
      a phospholipase D in rabbit kidney proximal tubule cells. By measuring the formation of
      [3H]phosphatidic acid and [3H]phosphatidylethanol, we elucidate the direct stimulation of
      phospholipase D by angiotensin II. Angiotensin II leads to a rapid increase in
      [3H]phosphatidic acid and [3H]diacylglycerol, and [3H]phosphatidic acid formation
      preceded the formation of [3H]diacylglycerol. This result suggests that some phosphatidic
      acid seems to be formed directly from phosphatidylcholine by the action of phospholipase
      D, not from the action of diacylglycerol kinase on the diacylglycerol. In addition, the other
      mechanisms by which phospholipase D is activated was examined. We have found that
      phospholipase D was activated by extracellular calcium ion. It has also been shown that
      angiotensin II may activate phospholipase D through protein kinase C-independent
      pathway.

UI  - 99252706 
AB  - It has been demonstrated that microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) interact with
      tubulin in vitro and in vivo. However, there is no clear evidence on the possible roles of
      the interactions of MAPs in vivo with other cytoskeletal components in maintaining the
      integrity of the cell architecture. To address this question we extracted the neuronal
      cytoskeleton from brain cells and studied the selective dissociation of specific molecular
      isospecies of tau protein under various experimental conditions. Tau, and in some cases
      MPA-2, were analysed by the use of anti-idiotypic antibodies that recognize epitopes on
      their tubulin binding sites. Fractions of microtubule-bound tau isoforms were extracted
      with 0.35 M NaCl or after the addition of nocodazole to allow microtubule
      depolymerization. Protein eluted with this inhibitor contained most of the assembled
      tubulin dimer pool and part of the remaining tau and MAP-2. When the remaining
      cytoskeletal pellet was treated with cytochalasin D to allow depolymerization of actin
      filaments, only tau isoforms were extracted. Immunoprecipitation studies along with
      immunolocalization experiments in cell lines containing tau-like components supported the
      findings on the roles of tau isospecies as linkers between tubulin in the microtubular
      structure with actin filaments. Interestingly, in certain types of cells, antibody-reactive tau
      isospecies were detected by immunofluorescence with a discrete distribution pattern along
      actin filaments, which was affected by cytochalasin disruption of the actin filament
      network. These results suggest the possible in vivo roles of subsets of tau protein in
      modulating the interactions between microtubules and actin filaments.

UI  - 99247251 
AB  - In membranes of rat olfactory bulb, muscarinic receptor agonists stimulate basal adenylyl
      cyclase activity . This response is inhibited by a number of muscarinic receptor
      antagonists with a rank order of potency suggesting the involvement of the M4 muscarinic
      receptor subtype. The stimulatory effect does not require Ca2+ and occurs independently
      of activation of phosphoinositide hydrolysis. Pretreatment with pertussis toxin completely
      prevents the muscarinic stimulation of adenylyl cyclase, indicating the participation of G
      proteins of the Gi/Go family. Immunological impairment of the G protein, Gs, also reduces
      the muscarinic response, whereas concomitant activation of Gs-coupled receptors by CRH
      or VIP results in a synergistic stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity. Although these data
      suggest a role for Gs, a body of evidence indicates that the muscarinic receptors do not
      interact directly with this G protein. Moreover, the Ca2+/calmodulin (Ca2+/CaM)- and
      forskolin-stimulated enzyme activities are inhibited by muscarinic receptor activation in a
      pertussis toxin-sensitive manner and with a pharmacological profile similar to that
      observed for the stimulatory response. These data indicate that in rat olfactory bulb M4
      muscarinic receptors exert a bimodal control on cyclic AMP formation through a sequence
      of events that may involve activation of Gi/Go proteins, synergistic interaction with Gs and
      differential modulation of Ca2+/CaM-independent and -dependent forms of adenylyl
      cyclase.

UI  - 99202684 
AB  - Muscarinic agonists elicit contraction in the standard guinea pig ileum bioassay through
      activation of M3 muscarinic receptors that are also linked to phosphoinositide hydrolysis.
      Surprisingly, the most abundant muscarinic receptor in the ileum is the M2 which causes a
      specific inhibition of cyclic AMP accumulation elicited by the beta-adrenergic receptor.
      After most of the M3 receptors are inactivated, the ileum still retains high sensitivity to
      muscarinic agonists provided that the contractile responses are measured in the presence
      of histamine and forskolin, which together, have no effect on contraction. Under these
      conditions, the potencies of antagonists for blocking the contractile response are
      consistent with those expected for an M2 response. Moreover, the muscarinic contractile
      response measured in the presence of histamine and forskolin after inactivation of M3
      receptors is pertussis toxin sensitive. In contrast, muscarinic contractions in the standard
      bioassay are pertussis toxin insensitive. These results demonstrate that the M2 muscarinic
      receptor can cause an indirect contraction of the guinea pig ileum by preventing the
      relaxing effect of agents that increase cAMP.


UI  - 99202683
AB  - We have studied the membrane insertion of ProW, an Escherichia coli inner membrane
      protein with seven transmembrane segments and a large periplasmic N-terminal tail, into
      endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-derived dog pancreas microsomes. Strikingly, significant levels
      of N-tail translocation is seen only when a minimum of four of the transmembrane
      segments are present; for constructs with fewer transmembrane segments, the N-tail
      remains mostly nontranslocated and the majority of the molecules adopt an "inverted"
      topology where normally nontranslocated parts are translocated and vice versa. N-tail
      translocation can also be promoted by shortening of the N-tail and by the addition of
      positively charged residues immediately downstream of the first trasnmembrane segment.
      We conclude that as many as four consecutive transmembrane segments may be
      collectively involved in determining membrane protein topology in the ER and that the
      effects of downstream sequence determinants may vary depending on the size and charge
      of the N-tail. We also provide evidence to suggest that the ProW N-tail is translocated
      across the ER membrane in a C-to-N-terminal direction.

UI  - 20158925
AB  - In this paper we report the development of a recombinant strain of the yeast Pichia
      pastoris, which secretes an anti-carcinoembryonic antigen single chain Fv (scFv) antibody
      fragment to the culture supernatant as a biologically active protein, at levels of 1.2 g l(-1).
      The yeast scFv was purified by IMAC, with a final yield of approximately 0.440 g of 93%
      pure scFv per liter of culture supernatant. The specific activity in ELISA of the yeast scFv
      was almost three times higher than that of a bacterial periplasmic counterpart. These
      results reaffirm that the yeast P. pastoris is a suitable host for high level production of
      scFv antibody fragments with potential in vivo diagnostic and therapeutic applications.

UI  - 20120123 
AB  - The transition metal Ni is an essential cofactor for a number of enzymatic reactions in both
      prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Molecular analyses have revealed the existence of two major
      types of high-affinity Ni2+ transporters in bacteria. The Nik system of Escherichia coli is a
      member of the ABC transporter family and provides Ni2+ ion for the anaerobic
      biosynthesis of hydrogenases. The periplasmic binding protein of the transporter, NikA, is
      likely to play a dual role. It acts as the primary binder in the uptake process and is also
      involved in negative chemotaxis to escape Ni overload. Expression of the nik operon is
      controlled by the Ni-responsive repressor NikR, which shows functional similarity to the
      ferric ion uptake regulator Fur. The second type of Ni2+ transporter is represented by
      HoxN of Ralstonia eutropha, the prototype of a novel family of transition metal permeases.
      Members of this family have been identified in gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria
      and recently also in a fission yeast. They transport Ni2+ with very high affinity, but differ
      with regard to specificity. Site-directed mutagenesis experiments have identified residues
      that are essential for transport. Besides these uptake systems, different types of metal
      export systems, which prevent microorganisms from the toxic effects of Ni2+ at elevated
      intracellular concentrations, have also been described.


UI  - 20112624 
AB  - Neuronal and glial glutamate transporters remove the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate
      from the synaptic cleft. The proteins belong to a large family of secondary transporters,
      which includes bacterial glutamate transporters. The C-terminal half of the glutamate
      transporters is well conserved and thought to contain the translocation path and the
      binding sites for substrate and coupling ions. A serine-rich sequence motif in this part of
      the proteins is located in a putative intracellular loop. Cysteine-scanning mutagenesis was
      applied to this loop in the glutamate transporter GltT of Bacillus stearothermophilus. The
      loop was found to be largely intracellular, but three consecutive positions in the
      conserved serine-rich motif (S269, S270, and E271) are accessible from both sides of the
      membrane. Single-cysteine mutants in the serine-rich motif were still capable of glutamate
      transport, but modification with N-ethylmaleimide blocked the transport activity in six
      mutants (T267C, A268C, S269C, S270C, E271C, and T272C). Two milimolars L-glutamate
      effectively protected against the modification of the cysteines at position 269-271 from the
      periplasmic side of the membrane but was unable to protect cysteine modification from the
      cytoplasmic side of the membrane. The results indicate that the conserved serine-rich motif
      in the glutamate transporter forms a reentrant loop, a structure that is found in several ion
      channels but is unusual for transporter proteins. The reentrant loop is of crucial
      importance for the function of the glutamate transporter.

UI  - 20056236 
AB  - C4b-binding protein (C4BP) regulates the complement system and the anticoagulant
      activity of protein S. Protein S can bind to C4BP, resulting in a decreased cofactor activity
      of protein S for anticoagulant activated protein C. C4BP contains several identical a-chains
      and a single 3-chain. Each chain contains Short Consensus Repeats (SCRs). By making
      chimeras of 13-chain SCRs fused to tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA chimeras), we
      found that 13-chain SCR-2 contributed to the interaction of 13-chain SCR-1 with protein S
      (van de Poel RHL, Meijers JCM, Bouma BN. J Biol Chem 274:15144-15150, 1999). Chimeras
      containing C4BP a-chains with SCR-1, SCR-l +2 or SCR-l +2+3 replaced by their 13-chain
      counterpart had affinities for protein S similar to C4BP (Hardig Y, Dahlbck B. J Biol Chem
      271:20861-20867, 1996). This was not in agreement with the finding that Beta-chain SCR-2
      contributed to the interaction and could be explained by the possibility that alpha-chain
      SCR-2 in the alpha-chain chimeras contributed comparable with Beta-chain SCR-2 in the
      tPA chimeras. To investigate this we constructed a tPA chimera containing Beta-chain
      SCR-1 and alpha-chain SCR-2 (Beta1alpha2). Binding studies showed that Beta1alpha2 had
      a lower affinity compared with SCR-1 +2, indicating that alpha-chain SCR-2 did not
      contribute to the interaction. The difference with the alpha-chain chimeras may be
      explained by the fact that the alpha-chain chimeras were linked by their C-terminal
      cysteines, resulting in multiple binding sites in a single molecule. Thereby, the effect of a
      lower affinity of each alpha-chain chimera may have been masked. The studies performed
      here help to clarify the apparent inconsistencies in two previous reports about the
      contribution of the SCR-2 domain in C4BP to protein S binding. In conclusion, Beta-chain
      SCR-2 specifically contributes to the interaction of SCR-1 with protein S.

UI  - 20201377
AB  - Clonal expansion of initiated cells is an important process in carcinogenesis. Loss of
      functional p53 protein in initiated, preneoplastic cells might be involved in this process
      because such a loss would favour cell growth at the expense of normal cells upon
      exposure to genotoxic compounds. We have tested the hypothesis that p53 is not
      expressed in preneoplastic cells in the rat liver. Hepatocytes were isolated from livers of
      10-week-old female rats that contained foci of preneoplastic hepatocytes, generated by 6-7
      weekly injections of diethylnitrosamine (0.15 mmol/kg body wt intraperitoneally (i.p.)),
      starting 24 h after birth. The mixture of phenotypically normal and preneoplastic
      hepatocytes was exposed to X-rays or N-acetoxy-acetylaminofluorene (NAAAF), both
      causing DNA damage directly. At 24 and 48 h after exposure the cells were fixed and
      double stained for glutathione-S-transferase 7-7 (GST7-7), to identify preneoplastic cells,
      and p53. The percentage of p53-positive cells was much lower in GST7-7 positive
      (GST7-7+) than in GST7-7 negative (GST7-7-) hepatocytes. Exposure of cells to X-rays or
      NAAAF induced p53 in GST7-7- cells after 24 h, but GST7-7+ hepatocytes failed to do so.
      These results suggest that preneoplastic cells do not express p53 or have an attenuated
      p53 response to genotoxic treatments. This was confirmed when the cells were exposed to
      a proteasome inhibitor, PSI, which inhibits p53 degradation: a 12-fold increase in
      p53-positive cells was found after 48 h in GST7-7- hepatocytes, but in GST7-7+
      hepatocytes no increase was observed. The percentage of GST7-7+ hepatocytes among
      surviving cells was increased after exposure to NAAAF, suggesting that these are more
      resistant to NAAAF than GST7-7- cells. This was not observed with PSI. These results
      indicate that preneoplastic hepatocytes have a lower p53 protein content and are not able
      to increase p53 upon inhibition of p53 breakdown or upon induction of DNA damage.
      Therefore, loss of p53 may favour clonal expansion of preneoplastic hepatocytes in the rat
      after administration of hepatocarcinogens or X-rays.

UI  - 20205476 
AB  - To elucidate the implication of type IV collagenases(MMP-2 and MMP-9) and their tissue
      inhibitors (TIMP-1 and TIMP-2) for placental development, we quantified their levels in the
      conditioned media of placental organ culture and primary culture of the trophoblast as well
      as in the tissue extracts of placentas from different stages of gestation using specific
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. First trimester villous tissue secreted about 10 times
      more pro-MMP-2 than pro-MMP-9, and pro-MMP-2 levels dramatically decreased in the
      second trimester. On the other hand, pro-MMP-9 levels were more than 10 times higher
      than those of pro-MMP-2 in the primary culture of the first trimester trophoblast,
      indicating the involvement of stromal cells for prominent pro-MMP-2 secretion from first
      trimester villous tissue described above. Levels of TIMPs, especially those of TIMP-2,
      remained constant throughout gestation both in the culture media and tissue extracts.
      Gelatin zymography revealed abundant secretion of the active form of MMP-2 as well as
      pro-MMP-2 from first trimester villous tissue. Western immunoblot analysis confirmed the
      presence of both TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 in placental tissue. These results suggest that active
      secretion of MMP-2 from villous tissue in the first trimester and constant production of
      TIMPs throughout gestation are characteristic of placental development.

UI  - 20199624 
AB  - The malting quality of two barley cultivars, Kymppi and Golden Promise, was modified to
      better meet the requirements of the brewing process. The egl1 gene, coding for fungal
      thermotolerant endo-1,4-beta-glucanase (EGI, cellulase), was transferred to the cultivars
      using particle bombardment, and transgenic plants were regenerated on bialaphos
      selection. Integration of the egl1 gene was confirmed by Southern blot hybridization. The
      transgenic seeds were screened for the expression of the heterologous EGI. Under the
      high-pI alpha-amylase promoter, the egl1 gene was expressed during germination. The
      heterologous enzyme was thermotolerant at 65 degrees C for 2 h, thus being suitable for
      mashing conditions. The amount of heterologous EGI produced by the seeds (ca. 0.025%
      of soluble seed protein), has been shown to be sufficient to reduce wort viscosity by
      decreasing the soluble beta-glucan content. A decrease in the soluble beta-glucan content
      in the wort improves the filtration rate of beer.

UI  - 20199403 
AB  - PURPOSE: Membrane-type matrix metalloproteinases are recently described proteolytic
      enzymes belonging to the matrix metalloproteinase family. Initial studies have indicated
      that membrane-type matrix metalloproteinases are involved in tumor invasion and
      metastasis. Membrane-type 1 matrix metalloproteinase is the first membrane-type matrix
      metalloproteinase to be described. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression
      of membrane-type 1 matrix metalloproteinase mRNA in colorectal cancer. METHODS:
      Samples were collected from surgical specimens of patients with colorectal
      adenocarcinoma and were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -80 degrees C
      until processed. Both normal and cancer tissue was taken from each patient. TNM stage,
      tumor differentiation, mucin production, and vascular invasion were assessed. Northern
      blotting was used to quantify membrane-type 1 matrix metalloproteinase mRNA levels in
      the samples using a membrane-type 1 matrix metalloproteinase cDNA clone. X-ray film
      images were digitized and densitometry was used to quantify bands. All samples were
      normalized against 18S rRNA levels. Results are expressed as the ratio of cancer to normal
      tissue levels. Statistical analysis was performed using analysis of variance, with P < 0.05
      accepted as the level of significance. RESULTS: A total of 32 samples were prospectively
      analyzed. The correlation between TNM stage and increased expression of membrane-type
      1 matrix metalloproteinase mRNA in cancer tissue over normal tissue is expressed in the
      mean ratio of cancer to normal tissue expression for Stages I through IV, respectively: 1.4
      +/- 0.2 (12 patients); 4.1 +/- 2.6 (8 patients); 3.4 +/- 3 (7 patients); and 4.5 +/- 5 (5 patients).
      Stage I is significantly different from Stages II and IV (P < 0.05). These preliminary results
      show an overall increasing trend in membrane-type 1 matrix metalloproteinase expression
      with increasing tumor stage. However, there was no correlation between membrane-type 1
      matrix metalloproteinase expression and mucin production, degree of tumor differentiation,
      or vascular invasion. CONCLUSION: Preliminary results indicate that membrane-type 1
      matrix metalloproteinase levels correlate with increasing tumor stage.

UI  - 20195260
AB  - Megalin (gp 330) is a large cell surface receptor expressed on the apical surfaces of
      epithelial tissues, that mediates the binding and internalization of a number of structurally
      and functionally distinct ligands. In this paper we report the first detailed structural
      characterization of megalin-derived oligosaccharides. Using strategies based on mass
      spectrometric analysis, we have defined the structures of the N-glycans of megalin. The
      results reveal that megalin glycoprotein is heterogeneously glycosylated. The major
      N-glycans identified belong to the following two classes: high mannose structures and
      complex type structures, with complex structures being more abundant than high mannose
      structures. The major nonreducing epitopes in the complex-type glycans are: GlcNAc,
      Galbeta1-4GlcNAc (LacNAc), NeuAcalpha2-6Galbeta1-4GlcNAc (sialylated LacNAc),
      GalNAcbeta1-4[NeuAcalpha2-3]Galbeta1-4GlcNAc (Sd(a)) and
      Galalpha1-3Galbeta1-4GlcNAc. Most complex structures are characterized by the presence
      of (alpha1,6)-core fucosylation and the presence of a bisecting GlcNAc residue.

UI  - 20171998 
AB  - Ceramide is not only a core intermediate of sphingolipids but also an important modulator
      of many cellular events including apoptosis, cell cycle arrest, senescence, differentiation,
      and stress responses. Its turnover may be tightly regulated. However, little is known about
      the regulation of its metabolism because most enzymes responsible for its synthesis and
      breakdown have yet to be cloned. Here we report the cloning and characterization of the
      yeast gene YPC1 (YBR183w) by screening Saccharomyces cerevisiae genes whose
      overexpression bestows resistance to fumonisin B1. We demonstrate that the yeast gene
      YPC1 encodes an alkaline ceramidase activity responsible for the breakdown of
      dihydroceramide and phytoceramide but not unsaturated ceramide. YPC1 ceramidase
      activity was confirmed by in vitro studies using an Escherichia coli expression system.
      Importantly, YPC1p also has reverse activity, catalyzing synthesis of phytoceramide from
      palmitic acid and phytosphingosine. This ceramide synthase activity is CoA-independent
      and is resistant to fumonisin B1, thus explaining why YPC1 was cloned as a fumonisin
      B1-resistant gene.

UI  - 20167157 
AB  - Resistance to imipenem and meropenem was observed in 211 (16.5%) isolates of
      Pseudomonas aeruginosa recovered in a Greek university hospital during 1996 to 1998. In
      six isolates selected from throughout this period, high-level resistance to both
      carbapenems (MICs >/= 128 microg/ml) was associated with production of the class B
      beta-lactamase VIM-1. bla(VIM)-bearing isolates belonged to serotype O:12 and were
      indistinguishable by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis.

UI  - 20164721 
AB  - Yeast Sir2 is a heterochromatin component that silences transcription at silent mating loci,
      telomeres and the ribosomal DNA, and that also suppresses recombination in the rDNA
      and extends replicative life span. Mutational studies indicate that lysine 16 in the
      amino-terminal tail of histone H4 and lysines 9, 14 and 18 in H3 are critically important in
      silencing, whereas lysines 5, 8 and 12 of H4 have more redundant functions. Lysines 9 and
      14 of histone H3 and lysines 5, 8 and 16 of H4 are acetylated in active chromatin and
      hypoacetylated in silenced chromatin, and overexpression of Sir2 promotes global
      deacetylation of histones, indicating that Sir2 may be a histone deacetylase. Deacetylation
      of lysine 16 of H4 is necessary for binding the silencing protein, Sir3. Here we show that
      yeast and mouse Sir2 proteins are nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)-dependent
      histone deacetylases, which deacetylate lysines 9 and 14 of H3 and specifically lysine 16
      of H4. Our analysis of two SIR2 mutations supports the idea that this deacetylase activity
      accounts for silencing, recombination suppression and extension of life span in vivo.
      These findings provide a molecular framework of NAD-dependent histone deacetylation
      that connects metabolism, genomic silencing and ageing in yeast and, perhaps, in higher
      eukaryotes.





UI  - 20126321
AB  - LOX-1 (lectin-like oxidized low density lipoprotein receptor-1) is a type II membrane protein
      belonging to the C-type lectin family that can act as a cell-surface receptor for atherogenic
      oxidized low density lipoprotein (Ox-LDL) and may play crucial roles in atherogenesis. In
      this study, we show, by pulse-chase labeling and glycosidase digestion, that LOX-1 is
      synthesized as a 40-kDa precursor protein with N-linked high mannose carbohydrate
      chains (pre-LOX-1), which is subsequently further glycosylated and processed into the
      48-kDa mature form within 40 min. Furthermore, when treated with an N-glycosylation
      inhibitor, tunicamycin, both tumor necrosis factor-alpha-activated bovine aortic
      endothelial cells and CHO-K1 cells stably expressing bovine LOX-1 (BLOX-1-CHO)
      exclusively produced a 32-kDa deglycosylated form of LOX-1. Cell enzyme-linked
      immunosorbent assay, flow cytometry, and immunofluorescence confocal microscopy
      demonstrated that the deglycosylated form of LOX-1 is not efficiently transported to the
      cell surface, but is retained in the endoplasmic reticulum or Golgi apparatus in tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha-activated bovine aortic endothelial cells, but not in BLOX-1-CHO
      cells. Radiolabeled Ox-LDL binding studies revealed that the deglycosylated form of
      LOX-1 expressed on the cell surface of BLOX-1-CHO cells has a reduced affinity for
      Ox-LDL binding. Taken together, N-linked glycosylation appears to play key roles in the
      cell-surface expression and ligand binding of LOX-1.


UI  - 20158975 
AB  - Disulfide bonds stabilize the structure and functions of the hemagglutinin neuraminidase
      attachment glycoprotein (HN) of Newcastle disease virus. Until this study, the disulfide
      linkages of this HN and structurally similar attachment proteins of other members of the
      paramyxoviridae family were undefined. To define these linkages, disulfide-linked peptides
      were produced by peptic digestion of purified HN ectodomains of the Queensland strain of
      Newcastle disease virus, isolated by reverse phase high performance liquid
      chromatography, and analyzed by mass spectrometry. Analysis of peptides containing a
      single disulfide bond revealed Cys(531)-Cys(542) and Cys(172)-Cys(196) linkages and that
      HN ectodomains dimerize via Cys(123). Another peptide, with a chain containing Cys(186)
      linked to a chain containing Cys(238), Cys(247), and Cys(251), was cleaved at Met(249)
      with cyanogen bromide. Subsequent tandem mass spectrometry established
      Cys(186)-Cys(247) and Cys(238)-Cys(251) linkages. A glycopeptide with a chain
      containing Cys(344) linked to a chain containing Cys(455), Cys(461), and Cys(465) was
      treated sequentially with peptide-N-glycosidase F and trypsin. Further treatment of this
      peptide by one round of manual Edman degradation or tandem mass spectrometry
      established Cys(344)-Cys(461) and Cys(455)-Cys(465) linkages. These data, establishing
      the disulfide linkages of all thirteen cysteines of this protein, are consistent with published
      predictions that the paramyxoviridae HN forms a beta-propeller structural fold.


UI  - 20158962 
AB  - The E. coli argE-encoded N-acetyl-L-ornithine deacetylase has been cloned, expressed,
      and purified in high yield. The substrate specificity of the enzyme is relatively broad, with
      a number of alpha-N-acyl-L-amino acids exhibiting activity, including both alpha-N-acetyl-
      and alpha-N-formylmethionine that exhibit higher activity than alpha-N-acetyl-L-ornithine.
      Sequence homolgy suggests that the enzyme is a member of the metal-dependent
      aminoacylase family, and the purified enzyme contains a single atom of zinc per monomer.
      The activity of this enzyme can be increased greater than 2-fold by the addition of zinc, or
      8-fold by the addition of cobalt. This suggests that the enzyme can accommodate two
      metal ions at the active site. The pH dependence of the kinetic parameters has been
      determined and revealed the presence of two enzymic groups, one functioning as a general
      base and one functioning as a general acid. Solvent kinetic isotope effects on the
      hydrolysis of N-acetylornithine have been determined, and a linear proton inventory
      suggests that a single proton transfer occurs in a partially rate-limiting step. A chemical
      mechanism is proposed and compared with other mechanisms determined for other
      members of the aminoacylase family.


UI  - 20150401 
AB  - The biological properties of preselected liposomal formulations of L-asparaginase
      (L-ASNase) were studied. Pharmacokinetics studies showed that encapsulation in large
      liposomes (sDRV; median diameter 1,249 nm) decreased the circulation time of the enzyme,
      whereas encapsulation in small liposomes (VET: median diameter 158-180 nm) prolonged it
      by a factor of up to 10. Liposome encapsulation in either VET or sDRV prevents the
      induction of anti-asparaginase antibodies and mitigates the anaphylatic reaction, as no
      death occurred in animals presensitized and challenged with liposomal formulation, in
      contrast to animals treated with the free enzyme. The antitumor activity was also enhanced
      by liposome encapsulation. The survival of animals bearing P1534 tumors was prolonged
      by a factor of 2 after treatment with selected liposomal formulations as compared with free
      enzyme.


UI  - 96285590 
AB  - Pseudomonas 7A glutaminase-asparaginase (PGA) catalyzes the hydrolysis of D and L
      isomers of glutamine and asparagine. Crystals of PGA were reacted with diazo analogues
      of glutamine (6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine, DON) and asparagine (5-diazo-4-oxo-L-norvaline,
      DONV), which are known inhibitors of the enzyme. The derivatized crystals remained
      isomorphous to native PGA crystals. Their structures were refined to crystallographic R =
      0.20 and R(free) = 0.24 for PGA-DON and R = 0.19 and R = 0.23 for PGA-DONV. Difference
      Fourier electron density maps clearly showed that both DON and DONV inactivate PGA
      through covalent inhibition. Continuous electron density connecting the inhibitor to both
      Thr20 and Tyr34 of the flexible loop was observed providing strong evidence that Thr20 is
      the primary catalytic nucleophile and that Tyr34 plays an important role in catalysis as
      well. The unexpected covalent binding observed in the PGA-DON and PGA-DONV
      complexes shows that a secondary reaction involving the formation of a Tyr34-inhibitor
      bond takes place with concomitant inactivation of PGA. The predicted covalent linkage is
      not seen, however, suggesting an alternative method of inhibition not yet seen for these
      diazo analogues. These surprising results give insight as to the role of the flexible loop Thr
      and Tyr in the catalytic mechanism.



UI  - 20150389 
AB  - To determine whether the activities of certain hydrolases (arylesterase,
      beta-glucuronidase, cathepsin L, plasminogen activators, arginase, glutaminase,
      asparaginase and adenosine deaminase) are changed during pregnancy, three groups of 15
      apparently healthy women (aged 18-38 years) in their first, second and third trimester of
      pregnancy were compared to a control group formed of 15 non-pregnant women of similar
      ages. Enzyme and specific activities gradually increased from the first to the end of the
      third trimester of pregnancy for arylesterase and beta-glucuronidase, these increases being
      statistically significant (P < 0.01) in comparison to controls. However, as regards cathepsin
      L and plasminogen activators, the greatest increase was found in the second trimester.
      Arginase, glutaminase and asparaginase activities were very low and not distinguishable
      from the controls. In conclusion, differences in the activities of several hydrolases have
      been found in the sera of healthy pregnant women in comparison to controls.


UI  - 97092093 
AB  - Rubella virus particles, consisting of a nucleocapsid surrounded by a lipid envelope in
      which two virus-encoded glycoproteins E1 and E2 are embedded, assemble on intracellular
      membranes and are secreted from cells, possibly via the cellular secretory pathway. We
      have recently demonstrated that the cytoplasmic domain of E1 (residues 469 to 481,
      KCLYYLRGAIAPR) is required for virus release. Alteration of cysteine 470 to alanine did
      not affect virus release, whereas mutation of leucine 471 to alanine reduced virus
      production by 90%. In the present study, substitutions of remaining amino acids in the E1
      cytoplasmic domain were made in order to investigate the role of each amino acid in
      regulating rubella virus release. Generated mutants were analyzed in the context of
      infectious full-length cDNA clone and virus-like particles using combined genetic,
      biochemical, and electron microscopic approaches. Substitution of a single residue of
      tyrosine 472 to alanine or tyrosine 473 to serine resulted in a block in virus release without
      affecting protein transport and virus budding into the lumen of the Golgi complexes.
      Infectious RNA transcripts bearing these mutations were incapable of forming plaques.
      Mutants with substitutions at the amino-terminal region (leucine 474, arginine 475, and
      glycine 476) in the E1 cytoplasmic domain had reduced virus release and small-plaque
      phenotype, while mutants with substitutions at the carboxy-terminal region (alanine 477,
      isoleucine 478, alanine 479, proline 480, and arginine 481) had only marginal defects in
      virus release. Plaque-forming revertants could be isolated from mutants Y472A and Y473S.
      Sequencing analysis revealed that the substituted serine residue in mutant Y473S reverted
      to the original tyrosine residue, whereas the substituted alanine residue in mutant Y472A
      was retained. These results indicate that the E1 cytoplasmic domain modulates virus
      release in a sequence-dependent manner and that the tyrosine residues are critical for this
      function. We postulate that residues YYLRG constitute a domain in the E1 tail that may
      interact with other proteins and this interaction is involved in regulating virus release.



UI  - 20173691 
AB  - The aim of this study was to evaluate the significance of pedigree/clinical data,
      immunohistochemistry (IHC) and microsatellite instability (MI) analyses in the reduction of
      costs of constitutional hMLH1 and hMSH2 gene mutation diagnosis in patients with
      colorectal cancers (CRC). Pedigree/clinical data were evaluated on a series of 168 patients
      with CRC, including 43 consecutive sporadic late-onset and 25 consecutive, definitive or
      suspected hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) cases, examined by IHC
      and MI analyses. In the latter group, 6/25 (24%) constitutional mutations were found. We
      detected no germline mutations in the sporadic late-onset patients. The lowest costs (880
      Euro/mutation detected) were achieved by performing pedigree/clinical data (for exclusion
      of late-onset sporadic CRC) in conjuction with IHC only. In this model 1/6 (17%) mutations
      was missed. Additional preselection by IHC and MI analyses before sequencing was
      required to detect all mutations. In this approach, which seems to be the most effective in
      the search for hMLH1 and hMSH2 gene mutation, the cost was 1767 euro/mutation
      detected.

UI  - 20205467 
AB  - The aim of this study was to provide some insights into the molecular mechanisms
      involved in p53-dependent apoptosis and growth arrest. Changes in the levels of p53
      protein and proteins regulated by p53 were studied in relation to events of the cell cycle
      and apoptosis in cervical cancer cell lines upon transfection with a p53 expressing
      adenovirus (Ad5-p53). The post-transfection level of p53 protein in SiHa cells was found
      to be unchanged during the 24-48 h period. In contrast, the level of p21WAF1 protein was
      shown to increase to its highest level at 24 h, and decreased gradually up to 48 h after the
      Ad5-p53 transfection. We further noted that the increase of p21WAF1 was accompanied
      by G1 arrest at 24 h and the decrease of p21WAF1 was associated with apoptosis at 36-48
      h after transfection. An anti-p21WAF1 antibody cross-reactive protein band of
      approximately 14 kDa was observed in HeLa and C-33A cells when these cells were
      committed to apoptosis upon Ad5-p53 transfection. In SiHa cells, phosphorylation of pRb
      was inhibited during the early stage of Ad5-p53 transfection. This was followed by the
      cleavage of pRb. However, Ad5-p53 transfection did not change the levels of Bax and
      Bcl-2 proteins. Our results suggested that, Bax and Bcl-2 may not be important for the
      apoptosis of these cells, whereas cleavage of Rb, and the decrease of p21WAF1 could
      play important roles in p53-dependent apoptosis.


UI  - 20205458 
AB  - PURPOSE: To determine whether alterations in rod cGMP-gated channel function mediate
      retinal degeneration, a transgenic approach in which the alpha subunit of the rod
      cGMP-gated channel is reduced by the expression of an antisense RNA was used.
      METHODS: A 890-bp fragment of the 5' mouse rod cGMP-gated channel cDNA was
      cloned in the antisense orientation under the control of the strong bacterial
      cytomegalovirus promoter. This antisense construct was used to generate transgenic mice
      in which the expression of the antisense transgene was measured by reverse
      transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Histologic, immunocytochemical, and TdT-dUTP
      terminal nick-end labeling (TUNEL) analyses were performed on control and transgenic
      retina sections to determine the effects of antisense expression on specific cell types.
      RESULTS: The antisense RNA was able to inhibit the translation of the rod channel
      protein in an in vitro assay. Three transgenic mouse lines expressing the antisense
      construct were obtained. Molecular analyses showed that the antisense is expressed in the
      eye of each transgenic mouse line, where it reduces rod cGMP-gated channel RNA
      expression. Histologic and immunocytochemical data showed that transgenic retinas have
      a reduced number of photoreceptors and bipolar cells. TUNEL staining confirmed that
      photoreceptor and bipolar cells degenerate along an apoptotic pathway. CONCLUSIONS:
      Impairment of rod cGMP-gated channel alpha subunit expression leads to photoreceptor
      and bipolar cell degeneration. These transgenic mice are the first model of retinal
      degeneration caused by an alteration in the expression of the rod cGMP-gated channel.
      This model system can be used to test therapies designed to slow or stalled retinal
      degenerations.


UI  - 20174856 
AB  - Immunoreactive cystic fibrosis transport regulator (CFTR) proteins in human sweat ducts
      has been documented but CFTR expression in the secretory coil has remained uncertain.
      Using monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against epitopes in the R-domain and C-terminus,
      we observed the following: Formalin fixation masks the CFTR epitopes but the epitopes are
      exposed by treatment with urea and heat (antigen retrieval). Pen-Fix fixation preserves
      CFTR epitopes. The secretory coil also expresses CFTR epitopes for the R-domain and
      C-terminus. An MAb against C-terminus amino acids 1466-1480 coupled to keyhole limpet
      hemocyanin (MAb WC) stained dark cells predominantly. Staining by MAbs against the
      C-terminus was completely blocked by a C-terminus peptide. mRNA for CFTR was
      amplified by RT-PCR in both the duct and the secretory coil. In situ hybridization for CFTR
      mRNA after 3SR amplification indicates that mRNA is localized in the dark cells and
      perhaps also in the clear cell cytoplasm near the secretory coil. mRNA is present in both
      the luminal and basal duct cells. We conclude that CFTR is expressed equally well in both
      the duct and the secretory coil, suggesting that cAMP-dependent Cl(-) channels are
      involved in regulation of sweat secretion and duct absorption.


UI  - 20145954
AB  - A-type K(+) currents are key determinants of repetitive activity and synaptic integration.
      Although several gene families have been shown to code for A-type channel subunits,
      recent studies have suggested that Kv4 family channels are the principal contributors to
      A-type channels in the somatodendritic membrane of mammalian brain neurons. If this
      hypothesis is correct, there should be a strong correlation between Kv4 family mRNA and
      A-type channel protein or aggregate channel currents. To test this hypothesis,
      quantitative single-cell reverse transcription-PCR analysis of Kv4 family mRNA was
      combined with voltage-clamp analysis of A-type K(+) currents in acutely isolated neurons.
      These studies revealed that Kv4.2 mRNA abundance was linearly related to A-type K(+)
      current amplitude in neostriatal medium spiny neurons and cholinergic interneurons, in
      globus pallidus neurons, and in basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. In contrast, there was
      not a significant correlation between estimates of Kv4.1 or Kv4.3 mRNA abundance and
      A-type K(+) current amplitudes. These results argue that Kv4.2 subunits are major
      constituents of somatodendritic A-type K(+) channels in these four types of neuron. In
      spite of this common structural feature, there were significant differences in the voltage
      dependence and kinetics of A-type currents in the cell types studied, suggesting that
      other determinants may create important functional differences between A-type K(+)
      currents.


UI  - 20098932 
AB  - Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is overexpressed, usually as a result of
      HER2 proto-oncogene amplification, in 20-30% of breast cancers. A HER2-positive status
      is generally associated with more aggressive disease and a worse prognosis. Furthermore,
      a positive HER2 status may predict the likelihood of resistance to some conventional
      therapies, as well as probably being predictive of sensitivity to anthracycline dose
      intensification. In addition to this prognostic/predictive value, HER2 is a target for specific
      therapy, with anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody therapy available in the USA. This article
      reviews the different assays used to determine HER2 status, discussing their relative
      advantages/disadvantages and the need for their standardisation before integration
      alongside other pathological indices into the clinical management of breast cancer.


UI  - 20205447 
AB  - Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) is a powerful inhibitor of cell proliferation and
      a potent inducer of differentiation. Resistance to TGF-beta action is a characteristic of
      many malignancies and has been attributed to alterations of TGF-beta receptors as well as
      disturbance of downstream transduction pathways. To analyse the TGF-beta response in
      neuroblastoma, the expression of TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta type I, II and III receptor genes
      was investigated in 61 cancer samples by means of reverse transcription polymerase chain
      reaction. The specimens analysed belong to different stages, namely nine samples of stage
      1, ten of stage 2, nine of stage 3 and 28 of stage 4. Moreover, five samples were of stage
      4S, which represents a tumour form undergoing spontaneous regression. The results
      obtained show that TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta type I and II receptor genes appear to be
      almost equally expressed in neuroblastomas of all stages. Conversely, TGF-beta type III
      receptor gene expression, which is required for an efficacious TGF-beta binding and
      function, is strongly reduced exclusively in neuroblastomas of stages 3 and 4. These
      findings were directly confirmed by immunohistochemical analyses of ten neuroblastoma
      specimens. Our results suggest the occurrence of an altered TGF-beta response in
      advanced neuroblastomas which might be an important mechanism for escaping growth
      control and for developing invasiveness. Moreover, our findings allow the proposal of a
      novel mechanism, namely down-regulation of TGF-beta type III receptor gene expression,
      to avoid TGF-beta inhibitory activity.



UI  - 20197548 
AB  - The aim of the study was to evaluate the biological response of human Schwann cells (SC)
      to tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) in vitro and to the inflammatory milieu of
      chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuritis (CIDP). By immunocytochemical
      and functional assays, we found that SC expressed TNF receptors and that TNFalpha
      promoted in SC cultures transient activation of transcription factors NFkappaB and c-jun
      in the absence of apoptosis. In addition, TNFalpha significantly increased the proportion
      of non-myelin-forming SC expressing the p75 nerve growth factor receptor. Such
      phenotypic effect was dose-dependent and partially mediated by NFkappaB, as assessed
      by functional blockage with acetylsalicylic acid. We then extended our study to a human
      disease in which SC are exposed to TNFalpha. Increased signals for NFkappaB, but not
      c-jun, molecules were observed by immunohistochemistry on SC nuclei in nerve biopsies
      from patients with CIDP, as compared with controls. Irrespective of the presence of nerve
      inflammation, SC showed no evidence of apoptosis. Taken together, our results suggested
      that SC are potential targets of TNFalpha and that this cytokine exerted no cytotoxic
      effects either in vivo or in vitro. Rather, TNFalpha may influence the fate of SC by
      activating transcriptional pathways and modulating their phenotype.


UI  - 20205904 
AB  - The neutrophil NADPH-oxidase can be activated by protein kinase C (PKC) agonists such
      as phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), resulting in superoxide anion release. This superoxide
      release is independent of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) because the inhibitor
      wortmannin does not affect the response. In this study, PMA is shown to also induce a
      wortmannin-sensitive NADPH-oxidase activation, however, not resulting in release of
      superoxide but in intracellular production of the radical. This indicates that two pools of
      NADPH-oxidase, one localized in the plasma membrane and the other in the granule
      membranes, are separately regulated and the signal transduction pathways leading to
      activation of these pools differ regarding involvement of PI 3-kinase. Activation of both
      pools was dependent on ERK/MAPK kinase (MEK) activity and protein phosphatase 1
      and/or 2A. As the two oxidase responses were differently affected by the inhibitor
      Go-6850, different PKC isozymes are suggested to take part in the two signal transduction
      pathways.


UI  - 20195239 
AB  - The aim of the present study was to assess the cytotoxicity of manumycin, a specific
      inhibitor of farnesyl:protein transferase, as well as its effects on protein isoprenylation and
      kinase-dependent signal transduction in COLO320-DM human colon adenocarcinoma
      which harbours a wild-type K-ras gene. Immunoblot analysis of isolated cell membranes
      and total cellular lysates of COLO320-DM cells demonstrated that manumycin
      dose-dependently reduced p21 ras farnesylation with a 50% inhibitory concentration
      (IC50) of 2.51 +/- 0.11 microM and 2.68 +/- 0.20 microM, respectively, while the
      geranylgeranylation of p21 rhoA and p21rap1 was not affected. Manumycin
      dose-dependently inhibited (IC50 = 2.40 +/- 0.67 microM) the phosphorylation of the
      mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular-regulated kinase 2 (p42MAPK/ERK2), the
      main cytoplasmic effector of p21ras, as well as COLO320-DM cell growth (IC50 = 3.58 +/-
      0.27 microM) without affecting the biosynthesis of cholesterol. Mevalonic acid (MVA, 100
      microM), a substrate of the isoprenoid synthesis, was unable to protect COLO320-DM
      cells from manumycin cytotoxicity. Finally, manumycin 1-25 microM for 24-72 h induced
      oligonucleosomal fragmentation in a dose- and time-dependent manner and MVA did not
      protect COLO320-DM cells from undergoing DNA cleavage. The present findings indicate
      that the inhibition of p21ras processing and signal transduction by manumycin is
      associated with marked inhibition of cell proliferation and apoptosis in colon cancer cells
      and the effect on cell growth does not require the presence of a mutated ras gene for
      maximal expression of chemotherapeutic activity.



UI  - 20194903
AB  - The modulation of adenosine receptor with K+(ATP) channel blocker, glibenclamide, was
      investigated using the radiolabeled A2A-receptor selective agonist [3H]CGS 21680.
      Radioligand binding studies in bovine brain striatal membranes (BBM) indicated that
      unlabeled CGS 21680 displaced the bound [3H]CGS 21680 in a concentration-dependent
      manner with a maximum displacement being approximately 65% at 10(-4) M. In the presence
      of 10(-5) M glibenclamide, unlabeled CGS 21680 increased the displacement of bound
      [3H]CGS 21860 by approximately 28% at 10(-4) M. [3H]CGS 21680 bound to BBM in a
      saturable manner to a single binding site (Kd = 10.6+/-1.71 nM; Bmax = 221.4+/-6.43
      fmol/mg of protein). In contrast, [3H]CGS 21680 showed saturable binding to two sites in
      the presence of 10(-5) M glibenclamide; (Kd = 1.3+/-0.22 nM; Bmax = 74.3+/-2.14 fmol/mg
      protein; and Kd = 8.9+/-0.64 nM; Bmax = 243.2+/-5.71 fmol/mg protein), indicating
      modulation of adenosine A2A receptors by glibenclamide. These studies suggest that the
      K+(ATP) channel blocker, glibenclamide, modulated the adenosine A2A receptor in such a
      manner that [3H]CGS 21680 alone recognizes a single affinity adenosine receptor, but that
      the interactions between K+(ATP) channels and adenosine receptors.



UI  - 20191133 
AB  - We studied the relevance of adenomatous polyposis coli (APC)/beta-catenin signalling in
      the development of breast cancer by analysing the expression of beta-catenin in 54 primary
      breast tumours (34 ductal and 20 lobular). We showed that 13% of the tumours exhibited
      upregulated levels of beta-catenin in the cytosol suggesting that defects in
      APC/beta-catenin signalling components had lowered the rate of beta-catenin degradation.
      No mutations were observed in the amino-terminal region of beta-catenin, which comprises
      conserved serine residues important for phosphorylation-dependent degradation of the
      protein, but the APC protein was altered in 6% of the tumours. Tyrosine phosphorylation
      of beta-catenin was detected in only one tumour and could, therefore, not have been
      responsible for the observed increased levels of this protein. Although 9% of the tumours
      displayed upregulation of c-MYC protein, there was no correlation with beta-catenin
      overexpression, suggesting that increased beta-catenin expression is not the major cause
      of c-myc gene activation in breast cancer. It is imperative that elements that selectively
      drive the oncogenic activity of beta-catenin in breast cancer be identified.


UI  - 20205457
AB  - Pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase (PDHK), a negative regulator of the mitochondrial
      pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex (mtPDC), plays a pivotal role in controlling
      mtPDC activity, and hence, the TCA cycle and cell respiration. This report describes the
      cloning of a pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase cDNA (AtPDHK) from Arabidopsis thaliana
      and focuses on the effects of antisense down-regulation of its expression on plant growth
      and development. The deduced amino acid sequence of AtPDHK exhibits extensive
      similarity to other plant and mammalian PDHKs, containing conserved domains typical of
      two-component histidine protein kinases. The Escherichia coli expressed AtPDHK
      specifically phosphorylated mammalian PDH E1 in a time-dependent manner. Antisense
      expression of the AtPDHK cDNA led to marked elevation of mtPDC activity in transgenic
      plants with increases ranging from 137% to 330% compared to control plants. Immunoblot
      analyses performed with a monoclonal antibody to the E1alpha mtPDH component (the
      subunit phosphorylated by PDHK) indicated that the increased mtPDC activity was not
      the result of an increase in the level of PDH protein. MtPDC from transgenic plants
      showed a reduced sensitivity to ATP-dependent inactivation compared to that observed
      in wild-type plants. Collectively, these data suggest that the antisense partial silencing of
      the negative regulator, PDHK, was responsible for the increased mtPDC activity observed
      in the antisense PDHK plants. Transgenic plants with partially repressed AtPDHK also
      displayed altered vegetative growth with reduced accumulation of vegetative tissues, early
      flower development and shorter generation time. The potential role for AtPDHK gene
      manipulation in crop improvement is discussed.


UI  - 20199409 
AB  - A large number of hematopoietic cytokines and their receptors as well as transcription
      factors have been shown to be involved in maturation of blood cells. However, many of
      the genes important for the differentiation of multipotent stem cells to specific cellular
      lineages are still unknown. To identify novel genes involved in lineage selection of
      myeloid cells, we have applied differential display analysis during commitment toward
      granulocytes and macrophages of an IL-3-dependent multipotent progenitor cell line,
      FDCP-mix. One regulated cDNA represented a novel gene with restricted expression
      pattern within the hematopoietic system and was strongly up-regulated when FDCP-mix
      cells differentiated in GM-CSF, G-CSF, and M-CSF. The expression appears to be
      differentiation stage-specific in myeloid cells and is absent in B and T lymphocytes. Thus
      we found expression in normal mouse bone marrow enriched for stem cells and multipotent
      progenitors (c-kit+Sca-1+Lin- cells). When these cells were induced to differentiate toward
      myeloid cells, MYADM was up-regulated. In contrast, during conditions known to favor
      the development of B cell progenitors, the gene was down-regulated. The gene, termed
      MYADM for myeloid-associated differentiation marker gene, shows 100% identity to
      expressed sequence tags from early mouse embryonic development as well as from the
      mouse lung and from activated mouse macrophages. The predicted 32-kDa MYADM
      protein contains multiple hydrophobic putative transmembrane segments and has several
      potential consensus sites for phosphorylation. In view of its expression pattern, MYADM
      could serve as a new marker gene for hematopoietic differentiation. Although the function
      is unknown, antisense oligonucleotides were able to inhibit colony formation of c-kit+ Lin-
      bone marrow cells, suggesting an important role for MYADM in myeloid differentiation.


UI  - 20195242
AB  - The clinical development of aromatase inhibitors has been largely confined to
      postmenopausal breast cancer patients and strongly guided by pharmacological data.
      Comparative oestrogen suppression has been helpful in circumstances in which at least
      one of the comparitors has caused substantially non-maximal aromatase inhibition.
      However, the triazole inhibitors, letrozole and anastrozole, and the steroidal inhibitor,
      exemestane, all cause >95% inhibition. Comparisons between these drugs therefore require
      more sensitive approaches such as the direct measurement of enzyme activity by isotopic
      means. None of these three agents has significant effects on other endocrine pathways at
      its clinically applied doses. Pharmacokinetic analyses of the combination of tamoxifen and
      letrozole have revealed that these drugs interact, resulting in letrozole concentrations
      approximately 35-40% lower than when letrozole is used alone.


UI  - 20193373 
AB  - Neuronal Cdc2-like kinase (Nclk) is involved in the regulation of neuronal differentiation
      and neuro-cytoskeleton dynamics. The active kinase consists of a catalytic subunit, Cdk5,
      and a 25 kDa activator protein (p25nck5a) derived from a 35 kDa neuronal-specific protein
      (p35nck5a). As an extension of our previous study (Qi, Z., Tang, D., Zhu, X., Fujita, D.J.,
      Wang, J.H., 1998. Association of neurofilament proteins with neuronal Cdk5 activator. J.
      Biol. Chem. 270, 2329-2335), which showed that neurofilament is one of the
      p35nck5a-associated proteins, we now report the isolation of three other novel
      p35nck5a-associated proteins using the yeast two-hybrid screen. The full-length forms of
      these three novel proteins, designated C42, C48 and C53, have a molecular mass of 66, 24,
      and 57 kDa, respectively. Northern analysis indicates that these novel proteins are widely
      expressed in human tissues, including the heart, brain, skeletal muscle, placenta, lung,
      liver, kidney and pancreas. The bacterially expressed glutathione S-transferase
      (GST)-fusion forms of these three proteins were able to co-precipitate p35nck5a complexed
      with Cdk5 from insect cell lysate. Among these three proteins, only C48 and C53 can be
      phosphorylated by Nclk, suggesting that they may be the substrates of Nclk. Sequence
      homology searches have suggested that the C48 protein is marginally related to restin
      protein, whereas the C42 protein has homologues of unknown function in Caenorhabditis
      elegans and Arabidopsis thaliana.


UI  - 20184747
AB  - The neurological system plays an important role in modulating some inflammatory skin
      diseases. Neuro-cutaneous interactions may be mediated by the release of neuropeptides
      such as substance P (SP) which activate immunocompetent cells in the skin by binding to
      high affinity neurokinin receptors (NKR). Since epidermal keratinocytes produce a variety
      of cytokines and are intimately associated with cutaneous sensory fibers, we tested the
      ability of these cells to participate in the cutaneous neuroimmune system by the secretion
      of potent cytokines such as interleukin 1 (IL-1) in response to released SP. RT-PCR studies
      demonstrated that cultured PAM 212 murine keratinocytes expressed mRNA for NK-2R
      but not NK-1R. Correspondingly, the addition of SP to these cells resulted in a rapid
      increase in intracellular Ca2+ levels that could be specifically blocked by an NK-2R
      antagonist. NK-2R was also shown in normal mouse epidermis by immunohistochemistry.
      SP augmented the expression of PAM 212 keratinocyte IL-1alpha mRNA in a dose and time
      dependent manner and this induction was inhibited by an NK-2R antagonist. Secretion of
      bioactive IL-1alpha by the PAM 212 keratinocytes was likewise stimulated by SP in a dose
      dependent manner. These data support the hypothesis that SP released from cutaneous
      sensory nerves contributes to neuroimmune inflammatory responses in the skin by
      modulating the expression and release of cytokines from epidermal keratinocytes.


UI  - 20151082 
AB  - Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP-27) was incubated in a
      tyrosine hydroxylase (TyrOH) assay with a homogenate preparation of the nucleus
      accumbens of the rat. TyrOH activity was determined in vitro by measuring the production
      of L-dopa with HPLC-ECD. Only in the presence of adenosine nucleotides (ATP,
      App(NH)p) PACAP-27 increased TyrOH activity with a EC(50)of 100 nM. Since the
      PACAP-27 effect on TyrOH was abolished when homogenate or pellet of the nucleus
      accumbens were coincubated with CHAPS, the peptide effect appears to be receptor
      mediated. TyrOH activation produced by PACAP-27 increased in the presence of the
      phosphodiesterase inhibitor papaverine indicating the involvement of cAMP. The marked
      effect of the non-hydrolysable adenosine nucleotide App(NH)p also supports a
      cAMP-dependent TyrOH activation not related to ADP or an ADP-dependent mechanism.
      This report's data suggest that PACAP-27 activates TyrOH in the rat nucleus accumbens
      through receptor-mediated cAMP formation. The exact receptor type present in the
      nucleus accumbens has yet not been specified. Copyright 1999 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.



UI  - 20190206 
AB  - A 27-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with the complaints of swelling of his face
      and lower limbs. Echocardiography showed minimal pericardial effusion accompanied by
      disordered diastolic function. Cardiac catheterization was performed to rule out
      constrictive pericarditis. Normal pressure tracings of the right heart rule out constrictive
      pericarditis, however, a narrowing of the inferior vena cava was observed. Venographies of
      the inferior and superior vena cavae showed extensive thrombotic involvement of these
      great veins. Protein C, protein S, anticardiolipin antibodies, fibrinogen, antithrombin-III,
      activated protein C resistance, and factor V levels were in normal limits. Heterozygosity for
      factor V Leiden mutation was detected. We conclude that factor V Leiden mutation can
      cause extensive thrombotic involvement of major veins and should be considered in
      idiopathic thrombosis of them.


UI  - 20199408 
AB  - The N-terminal propeptide of the sporamin precursor contains vacuolar targeting
      information within the Asn-26/Pro-27/Ile-28/Arg-29/Leu-30 (NPIRL) sequence. An
      Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression assay with tobacco BY-2 cells was employed
      to investigate the role of each amino acid of the NPIRL region in vacuolar targeting.
      Replacement of Asn-26, Pro-27, Ile-28 and Leu-30 with several amino acids caused
      secretion of the mutant prosporamin. Leu was the only amino acid that could be
      substituted for Ile-28 without affecting transport. Exchange of Leu-30 for amino acids with
      small side-chains abolished vacuolar delivery. These results indicate that the consensus
      composition of the NPIRL sequence is [preferably Asn]-[not acidic]-[Ile or Leu]-[any
      amino acid]-[large and hydrophobic] and suggest that the large alkyl side-chains of Ile-28
      and Leu-30 constitute the core of the vacuolar sorting determinant.



UI  - 20199407
AB  - Many endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proteins are known to be localized to the ER by a
      mechanism called retrieval, which returns the molecules that are exported from the ER to
      the Golgi apparatus back to the ER. Signals are required to be recognized by this retrieval
      system. In the work on yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we have demonstrated that
      transmembrane domains of a subset of ER membrane proteins including Sec12p, Sec71p
      and Sec63p contain novel ER retrieval signals. For the retrieval of these proteins, a Golgi
      membrane protein, Rer1p, is essential (Sato et al., Mol. Biol. Cell 6 (1995) 1459-1477; Proc.
      Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94 (1997) 9693-9698). To address the role of Rer1p in higher
      eukaryotes, we searched for homologues of yeast RER1 from Arabidopsis thaliana. We
      identified three cDNAs encoding Arabidopsis counterparts of Rer1p with an amino acid
      sequence identity of 39-46% to yeast Rer1p and named AtRER1A, AtRER1B, and
      AtRER1C1. AtRer1Ap and AtRer1Bp are homologous to each other (85% identity),
      whereas AtRer1C1p is less similar to AtRer1Ap and AtRer1Bp (about 50%). Genomic DNA
      gel blot analysis indicates that there are several other AtRER1-related genes, implying that
      Arabidopsis RER1 constitutes a large gene family. The expression of these three AtRER1
      genes is ubiquitous in various tissues but is significantly higher in roots, floral buds and a
      suspension culture in which secretory activity is probably high. All the three AtRER1
      cDNAs complement the yeast rer1 mutant and remedy the defect of Sec12p mislocalization.
      However, the degree of complementation differs among the three with that of AtRER1C1
      being the lowest, again suggesting a divergent role of AtRer1C1p.



UI  - 20194809
AB  - An immediate-early, transiently activated wound-responsive gene was identified in
      tobacco by fluorescent differential display screening. The full-length cDNA encodes a
      polypeptide of 356 amino acids with a relative molecular mass of 39,082 Da. The deduced
      amino acid sequence shows two characteristic features; a leucine-zipper motif found in the
      more N-terminal region and a WRKY domain containing a zinc-finger motif located in the
      central region. The gene was designated as wizz (wound-induced leucine zipper zinc
      finger). Northern analysis showed that upon wounding wizz transcripts were locally and
      systemically accumulated within 10 min, reached a maximum level by 30 min, and decreased
      thereafter to the basal level. Analyses of a WIZZ-GFP fusion protein clearly indicated that
      WIZZ is a nuclear factor. WIZZ specifically binds to sequences containing two TTGAC
      core motifs that are separated by a spacer of appropriate length. The binding activity was
      dependent on bivalent cations, most probably zinc. In transient reporter assays, however,
      WIZZ did not show transactivation activity in tobacco suspension cells, suggesting that it
      functions together with other components. The results indicate that WIZZ is a new
      transcription factor which participates in early stages of the wound response.



UI  - 20168809
AB  - The self-incompatibility possessed by Brassica is an intraspecific reproductive barrier by
      which the stigma rejects self-pollen but accepts non-self-pollen for fertilization. The
      molecular/biochemical bases of recognition and rejection have been intensively studied.
      Self-incompatibility in Brassica is sporophytically controlled by the polymorphic S locus.
      Two tightly linked polymorphic genes at the S locus, S receptor kinase gene (SRK) and S
      locus glycoprotein gene (SLG), are specifically expressed in the papillar cells of the stigma,
      and analyses of self-compatible lines of Brassica have suggested that together they
      control stigma function in self-incompatibility interactions. Here we show, by transforming
      self-incompatible plants of Brassica rapa with an SRK28 and an SLG28 transgene
      separately, that expression of SRK28 alone, but not SLG28 alone, conferred the ability to
      reject self (S28)-pollen on the transgenic plants. We also show that the ability of SRK28 to
      reject S28 pollen was enhanced by SLG28. We conclude that SRK alone determines S
      haplotype specificity of the stigma, and that SLG acts to promote a full manifestation of the
      self-incompatibility response.




UI  - 20171995 
AB  - Several studies suggest, that the snail Lymnaea stagnalis contains glycoproteins whose
      oligosaccharide side chains have structural features not commonly found in mammalian
      glycoproteins. In this study, prostate glands of L. stagnalis were incubated in media
      containing either [(3)H]-mannose, [(3)H]-glucosamine, or [(3)H]-galactose, and the
      metabolically radiolabeled protein-bound oligosaccharides were analyzed. The newly
      synthesized diantennary-like complex-type asparagine-linked chains contained a
      considerable amount of glucose, next to mannose, GlcNAc, fucose, galactose, and traces
      of GalNAc. Since glucose has not been found before as a constituent of diantennary
      N-linked glycans as far as we know, we assayed the prostate gland of L. stagnalis for a
      potential glucosyltransferase activity involved in the biosynthesis of such structures. We
      report here, that the prostate gland of L. stagnalis contains a beta1-->4-glucosyltransferase
      activity that transfers glucose from UDP-glucose to acceptor substrates carrying a terminal
      N-acetylglucosamine. The enzyme prefers substrates carrying a terminal GlcNAc that is
      beta6 linked to a Gal or a GalNAc, structures occurring in O-linked glycans, or a GlcNAc
      that is beta2 linked to mannose, as is present in N-linked glycans. Based on combined
      structural and enzymatic data, we propose that the novel beta1-->4-gluco-syltransferase
      present in the prostate gland may be involved in the biosynthesis of Glcbeta1-->4GlcNAc
      units in complex-type glycans, in particular in N-linked diantennary glycans.



UI  - 20167701 
AB  - An anthracenone analogue of abscisic acid (ABA) was synthesized as a potential
      photoaffinity reagent and tested for biological activity. Reaction between
      10,10'-dimethoxy-9-anthrone with two equivalents of the lithiated dianion of
      cis-3-methylpent-2-en-4-yn-1-ol afforded an acetylenic alcohol key intermediate.
      Subsequent reduction of the triple bond, functional group manipulation of the side chain
      alcohol and deprotection of the dimethoxy protected anthrone provided anthracenone
      ABA analogue 7 as a potential photoaffinity reagent for ABA-binding proteins. The effect
      of natural ABA and the potential photoaffinity anthracenone ABA 7 on corn cell growth
      was determined at various concentrations. The results show that anthracenone ABA 7 is
      perceived as ABA-like, although producing less inhibition than ABA itself. For example, 7
      at 33 microM produces approximately the same inhibition as ABA at 10 microM.




UI  - 20171695 
AB  - This paper describes in kindled rats an increment in wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish
      peroxidase labeling in anterior commissure, bed nuclei of stria terminalis and amygdala.
      Three groups of animals were analyzed: control, sham-operated and kindled animals with
      ten convulsive generalized seizures. Results show that kindled animals have an increase in
      fiber labeling in anterior commissure and in the bed nuclei of stria terminalis, as well as a
      greater number of labeled neurons in amygdala. This label enhancement is related to the
      hyperexcitability of neurons produced by epilepsy, and could be associated to the
      propagation and formation of secondary foci and related plastic changes occurring during
      kindling.




UI  - 20195237
AB  - Serum amyloid A (SAA) is a 12-kDa protein secreted in large amounts by liver cells during
      microbial infections or inflammatory diseases. We have recently reported that SAA
      induces chemotaxis of polymorphonuclear cells (PMN), monocytes, and T lymphocytes
      and stimulates their adhesion to endothelial monolayers. In this study, we investigated
      whether SAA regulates PMN antimicrobial activities. We found that recombinant SAA
      (rSAA), at concentrations comparable to serum levels attained during an acute phase
      response, is a potent activator of PMN. Stimulation of PMN by rSAA results in a rapid and
      transient increase of cytosolic calcium concentration and up-regulation of cell-surface
      expression of antigens involved in adhesion and microbial recognition such as CD11c and
      CD16. In addition, stimulation of PMN with rSAA increases secretion of lactoferrin, an
      antimicrobial protein that is contained in specific granules of PMN and enhances PMN
      phagocytic activity against heat-killed Candida albicans. Finally, activation of PMN with
      rSAA enhances their anti-Candida activity within 30 min of stimulation. These results
      suggest that SAA is involved in up-regulating PMN antimicrobial activities and that high
      circulating concentrations of SAA as seen in the acute phase response may constitute a
      potential host defense mechanism against fungal infections.



UI  - 20185067 
AB  - Most mitochondrial proteins are synthesized in the cytosol as precursor proteins with a
      cleavable N-terminal presequence and are imported into mitochondria. We report here the
      NMR structure of a general import receptor, rat Tom20, in a complex with a presequence
      peptide derived from rat aldehyde dehydrogenase. The cytosolic domain of Tom20 forms
      an all alpha-helical structure with a groove to accommodate the presequence peptide. The
      bound presequence forms an amphiphilic helical structure with hydrophobic leucines
      aligned on one side to interact with a hydrophobic patch in the Tom20 groove. Although
      the positive charges of the presequence are essential for import ability, presequence
      binding to Tom20 is mediated mainly by hydrophobic rather than ionic interactions.





UI  - 20191161 
AB  - The embryologic histogenesis of cartilage is not well characterized. While cranial cartilage
      is believed to be derived from pluripotential precursor cells of the neural crest,
      chondrocytes found elsewhere in the body are thought to be derived from mesoderm. As
      such, soft tissue tumors with cartilaginous differentiation may be related to neural crest or
      mesoderm. Peripherin is an intermediate filament encoded on chromosome 12, involved in
      growth and development of the peripheral nervous system. Peripherin is apparently
      expressed exclusively in cells derived from the neural crest and neural tube. A group of six
      soft tissue tumor types was selected because they are either of controversial
      differentiation or cytogenetically related to chromosome 12. A total of 41 cases was
      evaluated with antibodies against the intermediate filament peripherin. A panel of neural
      and neuroendocrine differentiation markers was used in selected cases. Three of five
      extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcomas showed strong cytoplasmic reactivity with
      anti-peripherin. No peripherin expression was noted in any of eleven epithelioid sarcomas,
      eight liposarcomas, seven conventional chondrosarcomas, four neurothekeomas, three
      alveolar soft part sarcomas, or three clear cell sarcomas. The finding of peripherin
      expression in some extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcomas may suggest the ability of some
      tumors to demonstrate both neural and chondroid differentiation.



UI  - 20194838 
AB  - The transport and localization of env-proteins of ts1 virus (a paralytogenic
      temperature-sensitive mutant of Moloney murine leukemia virus) in infected cells of the TB
      cell line have been studied at the ultrastructural level. It was found that the envelope
      precursor polyprotein gPr80-env of ts1 was inefficiently transported out of the
      endoplasmic reticulum at the restrictive temperature. It was speculated that inefficient
      transport correlates with inefficient processing of gPr80env into gp70 and Prp15E and
      leads to paralytic disease.



UI  - 20044033
AB  - The nematode cuticle is a complex extracellular structure which is secreted by an
      underlying syncytium of hypodermal cells. Recent studies have demonstrated that the
      cuticle of parasitic nematodes is a dynamic structure with important absorptive, secretory,
      and enzymatic activities. In addition, the cuticle serves as a protective barrier against the
      host. A 48-h third stage larval Dirofilaria immitis cDNA library was immunoscreened with
      sera raised against larval cuticles. One clone, L3MC4 that reacted strongly with the
      anti-cuticle antisera was sequenced. The composite cDNA sequence comprises 2073 bp
      coding for a full-length protein of 590 amino acids. GenBank analysis showed that DiAsp
      had significant similarity to a Caenorhabditis elegans gene-product (54% identity) and to
      other asparaginases at the amino acid level. Escherichia coli-expressed recombinant DiAsp
      (rDiAsp) catalysed the hydrolysis of asparagine to aspartate and ammonia. Antibodies
      raised against D. immitis larval cuticles reacted with rDiAsp in immunoblots. This is the
      first report of identification of a cDNA clone encoding an asparaginase enzyme from a
      parasitic nematode.




UI  - 20126051
AB  - The Wilms' tumor gene WT1 is expressed at high levels not only in acute myelocytic and
      lymphocytic leukemia and in chronic myelocytic leukemia but also in various types of solid
      tumors including lung cancers. To determine whether the WT1 protein can serve as a
      target Ag for tumor-specific immunity, three 9-mer WT1 peptides (Db126, Db221, and
      Db235), which contain H-2Db-binding anchor motifs and have a comparatively higher
      binding affinity for H-2Db molecules, were tested in mice (C57BL/6, H-2Db) for in vivo
      induction of CTLs directed against these WT1 peptides. Only one peptide, Db126, with the
      highest binding affinity for H-2Db molecules induced vigorous CTL responses. The CTLs
      specifically lysed not only Db126-pulsed target cells dependently upon Db126
      concentrations but also WT1-expressing tumor cells in an H-2Db-restricted manner. The
      sensitizing activity to the Db126-specific CTLs was recovered from the cell extract of
      WT1-expressing tumor cells targeted by the CTLs in the same retention time as that
      needed for the synthetic Db126 peptide in RP-HPLC, indicating that the Db126-specific
      CTLs recognize the Db126 peptide to kill WT1-expressing target cells. Furthermore, mice
      immunized with the Db126 peptide rejected challenges by WT1-expressing tumor cells and
      survived for a long time with no signs of autoaggression by the CTLs. Thus, the WT1
      protein was identified as a novel tumor Ag. Immunotherapy targeting the WT1 protein
      should find clinical application for various types of human cancers.



UI  - 20124006 
AB  - We have determined the solution NMR structure of the ribosomal protein L36 from
      Thermus thermophilus. L36 is the smallest protein in the large subunit of the prokaryotic
      ribosome. The sequence contains three completely conserved cysteine residues and one
      conserved histidine residue in a C-X(2)-C-X(12)-C-X(4)-H motif. Extended X-ray absorption
      fine structure spectroscopy was used to confirm that a purified L36 sample contains an
      equimolar amount of zinc. The structure of L36 was determined using simulated annealing
      based on NOE distance restraints, dihedral angle restraints and hydrogen bond distance
      restraints derived from NMR spectra of (15)N-labeled and non-labeled L36 samples at pH 7
      and 12 degrees C, and by imposing tetrahedral zinc ion coordination geometry. The L36
      fold is characterized by a triple-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet with the zinc-binding site at
      one end. The structure of the zinc site is well-determined and shows that the three cysteine
      sulphur atoms are supported by hydrogen bonds to backbone amide protons. The
      conserved histidine residue is located in a short 3(10)-helix and coordinates zinc by the
      N(delta1) atom. The electrostatic surface potential and location of conserved Arg, Lys and
      His side-chains suggest a large continuous L36-rRNA interaction interface. The folding
      topology as well as position and conformation of many conserved side-chains in L36 are
      very similar to those of zinc-ribbon domains found in the archaeal transcription factor
      TFIIB N terminus and the eukaryal transcription elongation factor hTFIIS C terminus.
      Given the relative antiquity of the ribosome it is possible that L36 reflects the parent of
      transcription-related zinc ribbons. Copyright 2000 Academic Press.




UI  - 20190101 
AB  - We previously showed that oncoprotein MDM2 has ubiquitin ligase activity toward tumor
      suppressor p53. In that paper, we showed very weak homology in the carboxyl terminal
      portion between MDM2 and E6AP (HECT domain). We mutated the cysteine residue
      (C464) corresponding to the residue essential for the ubiquitin ligase activity of E6AP and
      this mutation diminished the ligase activity of MDM2. The cysteine residue described
      above is also one of the cysteine residues that form the RING finger domain of MDM2. We
      tried to find out whether the diminishing of the activity by the mutation is attributable to
      the disruption of the RING finger domain or not. When the ring finger domain of MDM2
      was deleted, the truncation mutant did not have the ubiquitin ligase activity. When we
      mutated the seven cysteine residues of RING finger domain of MDM2 in the carboxyl
      terminus, the disruption of each residue in the RING finger completely diminished the
      ubiquitin ligase activity of MDM2 toward MDM2 itself and toward tumor suppressor p53.
      These data indicate that the RING finger domain in MDM2 is essential for its ubiquitin
      ligase activity toward p53 and itself.



UI  - 20184720 
AB  - JAB1 was originally described as a transcriptional coactivator of c-Jun and Jun D. Recent
      data suggests that JAB1 is a component of a large protein complex, the JAB1 signalosome
      in mammals and the COP9 complex in plants. The JAB1 signalosome is implicated in the
      phosphorylation of selected transcription factors, while the COP9 complex is involved in
      repression of photomorphogenesis in Arabidopsis. In this study, we describe the partial
      characterization of mouse JAB1 (mJAB1). The murine JAB1 protein is encoded by a gene
      located on mouse chromosome 1. mJAB1 mRNA is abundantly expressed in a variety of
      adult tissues as well as in mouse embryos. The JAB1 protein was readily detectable in
      many cell types and localized to both the nucleus and cytoplasm. Endogenous JAB1
      protein is relatively stable and its degradation is not perturbed by blocking 26S
      proteasome activity, suggesting that this protein is not degraded by the
      ubiquitin-mediated proteolytic pathway.




UI  - 20167151
AB  - We have identified cDNAs encoding three isoforms (a1, a2, and a3) of the 100-kDa a
      subunit of the mouse vacuolar proton-translocating ATPase (V-ATPase). The predicted
      protein sequences of the three isoforms are 838, 856, and 834 amino acids, respectively,
      and they display approximately 50% identity between isoforms. Northern blot analysis
      demonstrated that all three isoforms are expressed in most tissues examined. However, the
      a1 isoform is expressed most heavily in brain and heart, a2 in liver and kidney, and a3 in
      liver, lung, heart, brain, spleen, and kidney. We also identified multiple alternatively spliced
      variants for each isoform. Reverse transcriptase-mediated polymerase chain reaction
      revealed that one splicing variant of the a1 isoform (a1-I) was expressed only in brain,
      whereas two other variants (a1-II and a1-III) were expressed in tissues other than brain.
      These alternatively spliced forms differ in the presence or absence of 6-7 amino acid
      residues near the amino and carboxyl termini of the proteins encoded. The a3 isoform is
      also encoded by three alternatively spliced variants, two of which are predicted to encode
      a protein that is truncated near the border of the amino- and carboxyl-terminal domains of
      the a subunit and therefore lacks the integral transmembrane-spanning helices thought to
      participate in proton translocation. Expression of each isoform (with the exception of a1-I)
      was detectable at all developmental stages investigated, with a1-I absent only in day 7
      embryos. The results obtained suggest that isoforms of the 100-kDa a subunit may
      contribute to tissue-specific functions of the V-ATPase.




UI  - 97150874
AB  - Eukaryotic initiation factor 3 (eIF3) is a large multisubunit complex that stabilizes the
      ternary complex, eIF2 x GTP x tRNA(Met)i and promotes mRNA binding to the 40 S
      ribosomal subunit. eIF3 also functions as a ribosome subunit anti-association factor. The
      molecular mechanisms by which eIF3 exerts these functions are poorly understood. We
      describe here the cloning of the cDNA encoding the human homologue of the yeast eIF3
      subunit Prt1. The human PRT1 cDNA encodes a protein of predicted molecular mass of
      98.9 kDa that migrates at 116 kDa on SDS-polyacrylamide gels. Human and yeast Prt1 share
      31% identity and 50% similarity at the amino acid level. The homology is distributed
      throughout the entire protein, except for the amino terminus, and is particularly high in the
      central portion of the protein, which contains a putative RNA recognition motif. hPrt1 is
      recognized by an antibody raised against eIF3, and an affinity-purified antibody to
      recombinant hPrt1 recognizes a protein migrating at 116 kDa in a purified eIF3 preparation.
      Far Western analysis shows that hPrt1 interacts directly with the p170 subunit of eIF3.
      Mapping studies identify the RNA recognition motif as the region required for association
      with p170. Taken together, these experiments demonstrate that hPrt1 is a component of
      eIF3. Our data, combined with those of Hershey and co-workers, suggest that mammalian
      eIF3 is composed of at least 10 subunits: p170, p116 (hPrt1), p110, p66, p48, p47, p44, p40,
      p36, and p35.




UI  - 97294720
AB  - CD45 is an abundant, highly glycosylated transmembrane protein-tyrosine phosphatase
      expressed on hematopoietic cells. Herein we demonstrate that two proteins of 116 kDa and
      80 kDa copurify with CD45 from mouse T cells. Microsequence analysis of the 116-kDa
      protein revealed high similarity to an incomplete human open reading frame that has been
      suggested to correspond to the catalytic alpha-subunit of glucosidase II. We determined
      the nucleotide sequence of the mouse cDNA and observed that it encodes a protein
      product nearly identical to its human homologue and shares an active site consensus
      sequence with Family 31 glucosidases. Amino acid sequencing of the 80-kDa protein,
      followed by molecular cloning, revealed high homology to human and bovine cDNAs
      postulated to encode the beta-subunit of glucosidase II. Antisera developed to the mouse
      beta-subunit allowed us to demonstrate that the interaction between CD45 and
      glucosidase II can be reconstituted in vitro in an endoglycosidase H-sensitive manner.
      The strong interaction between glucosidase II and CD45 may provide a paradigm for
      investigating novel aspects of the biology of these proteins.



UI  - 20193700 
AB  - Activation-induced cell death (AICD) is a mechanism of peripheral T cell tolerance that
      depends upon an interaction between Fas and Fas ligand (FasL). Although c-Jun
      NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) may be
      involved in apoptosis in various cell types, the mode of regulation of FasL expression
      during AICD in T cells by these two MAPKs is incompletely understood. To investigate
      the regulatory roles of these two MAPKs, we analyzed the kinetics of TCR-induced p38
      MAPK and JNK activity and their regulation of FasL expression and AICD. We report that
      both JNK and p38 MAPK regulate AICD in T cells. Our data suggest a novel model of T
      cell AICD in which p38 MAPK acts early to initiate FasL expression and the Fas-mediated
      activation of caspases. Subsequently, caspases stimulate JNK to further upregulate FasL
      expression. Thus, p38 MAPK and downstream JNK converge to regulate FasL expression
      at different times after T cell receptor stimulation to elicit maximum AICD.



UI  - 20184737
AB  - In an effort to identify gene products involved in transcriptional regulation in
      apicomplexan parasites, the Toxoplasma gondii expressed sequence tag (EST) database
      was examined for sequences containing similarity to known transcriptional components.
      One EST (dbEST ID #466792) exhibited strong similarity to yeast GCN5 and other histone
      acetyltransferases (HATs). Primers were designed based on the EST sequence and used to
      amplify an 850 bp fragment (containing an intron) from T. gondii genomic DNA which was
      used to identify four cDNA clones from a tachyzoite cDNA library. The complete open
      reading frame (ORF) of 3.5 kb was elucidated using 5' RACE and genomic sequence. The
      deduced amino acid sequence of the coding region shows that the C-terminal domain
      possesses unequivocal similarity to GCN5 family members. However, unlike other lower
      eukaryotes, T. gondii GCN5 has an extended N-terminal domain similar in length, but not in
      composition, to metazoan HAT proteins. These features distinguish T. gondii GCN5 as a
      novel member of the GCN5 family. A portion of the cDNA sequence was used as a probe
      to isolate three overlapping clones from a T. gondii genomic library, generating a
      approximately 7.5 kb map of the GCN5 locus which contains seven exons separated by six
      introns. Southern analysis verifies the predicted map and suggests that a similar locus may
      be present elsewhere in the genome.



UI  - 20180069 
AB  - Notch proteins are transmembrane receptors that mediate intercell communication and
      direct individual cell fate decisions. The activated intracellular form of Notch, NotchIC,
      translocates to the nucleus, where it targets the DNA binding protein CBF1. CBF1
      mediates transcriptional repression through the recruitment of an SMRT-histone
      deacetylase-containing corepressor complex. We have examined the mechanism whereby
      NotchIC overcomes CBF1-mediated transcriptional repression. We identified SKIP
      (Ski-interacting protein) as a CBF1 binding protein in a yeast two-hybrid screen. Both
      CBF1 and SKIP are highly conserved evolutionarily, and the SKIP-CBF1 interaction is also
      conserved in assays using the Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster SKIP
      homologs. Protein-protein interaction assays demonstrated interaction between SKIP and
      the corepressor SMRT. More surprisingly, SKIP also interacted with NotchIC. The SMRT
      and NotchIC interactions were mutually exclusive. In competition binding experiments
      SMRT displaced NotchIC from CBF1 and from SKIP. Contact with SKIP is required for
      biological activity of NotchIC. A mutation in the fourth ankyrin repeat that abolished
      Notch signal transduction did not affect interaction with CBF1 but abolished interaction
      with SKIP. Further, NotchIC was unable to block muscle cell differentiation in myoblasts
      expressing antisense SKIP. The results suggest a model in which NotchIC activates
      responsive promoters by competing with the SMRT-corepressor complex for contacts on
      both CBF1 and SKIP.



UI  - 20184753
AB  - Ermap (erythroid membrane-associated protein), a gene coding for a novel transmembrane
      protein produced exclusively in erythroid cells, is described. It is mapped to murine
      Chromosome 4, 57 cM distal to the centromere. The initial cDNA clone was isolated from a
      day 9 murine embryonic erythroid cell cDNA library. The predicted peptide sequence
      suggests that ERMAP is a transmembrane protein with two extracellular immunoglobulin
      folds, as well as a highly conserved B30.2 domain and several phosphorylation consensus
      sequences in the cytoplasmic region. ERMAP shares a high homology throughout the
      entire peptide with butyrophilin, a glycoprotein essential for milk lipid droplet formation
      and release. A GFP-ERMAP fusion protein was localized to the plasma membrane and
      cytoplasmic vesicles in transiently transfected 293T cells. Northern blot analysis and
      in-situ hybridization demonstrated that Ermap expression was restricted to fetal and adult
      erythroid tissues. ERMAP is likely a novel adhesion/receptor molecule specific for
      erythroid cells.



UI  - 20199367 
AB  - The Schistosoma mansoni gene coding for a 14-kDa fatty acid-binding protein was
      amplified by PCR and subcloned into the prokaryotic expression vector pMAL-c2.
      Escherichia coli DH5alpha was transformed with the pMAL-Sm14 construct, and gene
      expression was induced hr isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside. The resulting
      recombinant (r) fusion protein was purified by affinity chromatography and confirmed by
      immunoblot analysis using antimaltose-binding protein or anti-Sm14 antibodies.
      Additionally, an antibody isotype profile was determined in sera of schistosomiasis
      patients to rSm14 or soluble adult worm antigen preparation. IgG1 and IgG3 subclass
      antibodies to rSm14 were predominant in sera of all patients studied whereas low levels of
      IgM, IgA or IgE were measured. Expression of a S. mansoni gene encoding a vaccine
      candidate is an important step to better study human immune responses to defined
      antigens.

